## 11. 服务发现：Eureka客户端

服务发现是基于微服务架构的关键原则之一. 尝试配置每个客户端或某种形式的约定可能非常困难，而且非常脆弱. Eureka是Netflix提供的，可以实现服务发现服务器端和客户端的组件. 可以将服务器配置和部署为高可用性，每个服务器将注册服务的状态复制到其他服务器.

## 11.1 如何添加Eureka客户端依赖

要在项目中包含Eureka Client，可以添加group Id为`org.springframework.cloud`和artifact Id 为`spring-cloud-starter-eureka`的起步依赖. 有关使用当前Spring Cloud发布版本设置构建系统的详细信息，请参阅“Spring Cloud Project”页面.

## 注册到Eureka

当一个客户端注册到Eureka时， 它需要提供自已一些元数据信息，比如主机和端口，还有健康检查的URL， 主页等等. Eureka receives heartbeat messages from each instance belonging to a service. 如果在配置的时间段内接收心跳消息失败，这个实例就会从注册中心被正常的移除.

Eureka客户端的例子:

    @Configuration
    @ComponentScan
    @EnableAutoConfiguration
    @EnableEurekaClient
    @RestController
    public class Application {
    
        @RequestMapping("/")
        public String home() {
            return "Hello world";
        }
    
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            new SpringApplicationBuilder(Application.class).web(true).run(args);
        }
    
    }
    

(i.e. utterly normal Spring Boot app). 在这个例子中我们使用@EnableEurekaClient注解，但只有Eureka可以使用@EnableDiscoveryClient注解. 还需要一些配置来定位Eureka服务器. 例如:

**application.yml. **

    eureka:
      client:
        serviceUrl:
          defaultZone: http://localhost:8761/eureka/
    

这里的defaultZone是一个神奇的字符串值， 客户端如果不显式的配置，会使用此默认值（它是非常有用的）.

从环境（Environment）中获取的默认应用程序名称（服务ID）、虚拟主机和非安全端口分别是${spring.application.name}, ${spring.application.name}和${server.port}.

从环境（Environment）中获取的默认应用程序名称（服务ID）、虚拟主机和非安全端口分别是${spring.application.name}, ${spring.application.name}和${server.port}@EnableEurekaClient使应用程序即是一个Eureka实例（它可以自已注册自已） 又一个客户端，（它可以从注册中心查询定位其它服务）. 它的实例的行为由eureka.instance.*配值驱动。但是如果你保证你的程序中有一个spring.application.name（它默认是Euraka的service ID， 或者VIP），那么默认的配值已经很好了.

查看EurekaInstanceConfigBean 和 EurekaClientConfigBean 以获得更多可配置的选项的详细信息.

## 11.3 认证Eureka服务

HTTP basic authentication will be automatically added to your eureka client if one of the`eureka.client.serviceUrl.defaultZone`

URLs has credentials embedded in it (curl style, like[`http://user:password@localhost:8761/eureka`](http://user:password@localhost:8761/eureka)). For more complex needs you can create a`@Bean`of type`DiscoveryClientOptionalArgs`and inject`ClientFilter`instances into it, all of which will be applied to the calls from the client to the server.

> Because of a limitation in Eureka it isn’t possible to support per-server basic auth credentials, so only the first set that are found will be used.

## 11.4 Status Page and Health Indicator

The status page and health indicators for a Eureka instance default to "/info" and "/health" respectively, which are the default locations of useful endpoints in a Spring Boot Actuator application. You need to change these, even for an Actuator application if you use a non-default context path or servlet path (e.g.`server.servletPath=/foo`) or management endpoint path (e.g.`management.contextPath=/admin`). Example:

**application.yml. **

    eureka:
      instance:
        statusPageUrlPath: ${management.context-path}/info
        healthCheckUrlPath: ${management.context-path}/health
    

These links show up in the metadata that is consumed by clients, and used in some scenarios to decide whether to send requests to your application, so it’s helpful if they are accurate.

## 11.5 Registering a Secure Application

If your app wants to be contacted over HTTPS you can set two flags in the`EurekaInstanceConfig`,_viz_`eureka.instance.[nonSecurePortEnabled,securePortEnabled]=[false,true]`respectively. This will make Eureka publish instance information showing an explicit preference for secure communication. The Spring Cloud`DiscoveryClient`will always return a URI starting with`https`for a service configured this way, and the Eureka (native) instance information will have a secure health check URL.

Because of the way Eureka works internally, it will still publish a non-secure URL for status and home page unless you also override those explicitly. You can use placeholders to configure the eureka instance urls, e.g.

**application.yml.**

    eureka:
      instance:
        statusPageUrl: https://${eureka.hostname}/info
        healthCheckUrl: https://${eureka.hostname}/health
        homePageUrl: https://${eureka.hostname}/
    

(Note that`${eureka.hostname}`is a native placeholder only available in later versions of Eureka. You could achieve the same thing with Spring placeholders as well, e.g. using`${eureka.instance.hostName}`.)

> If your app is running behind a proxy, and the SSL termination is in the proxy (e.g. if you run in Cloud Foundry or other platforms as a service) then you will need to ensure that the proxy "forwarded" headers are intercepted and handled by the application. An embedded Tomcat container in a Spring Boot app does this automatically if it has explicit configuration for the 'X-Forwarded-\\*\` headers. A sign that you got this wrong will be that the links rendered by your app to itself will be wrong (the wrong host, port or protocol).

## 11.6 Eureka’s Health Checks

By default, Eureka uses the client heartbeat to determine if a client is up. Unless specified otherwise the Discovery Client will not propagate the current health check status of the application per the Spring Boot Actuator. Which means that after successful registration Eureka will always announce that the application is in 'UP' state. This behaviour can be altered by enabling Eureka health checks, which results in propagating application status to Eureka. As a consequence every other application won’t be sending traffic to application in state other then 'UP'.

**application.yml. **

    eureka:
      client:
        healthcheck:
          enabled: true
    

> `eureka.client.healthcheck.enabled=true`should only be set in`application.yml`. Setting the value in`bootstrap.yml`will cause undesirable side effects like registering in eureka with an`UNKNOWN`status.

If you require more control over the health checks, you may consider implementing your own

`com.netflix.appinfo.HealthCheckHandler`.

## 11.7 Eureka Metadata for Instances and Clients

It’s worth spending a bit of time understanding how the Eureka metadata works, so you can use it in a way that makes sense in your platform. There is standard metadata for things like hostname, IP address, port numbers, status page and health check. These are published in the service registry and used by clients to contact the services in a straightforward way. Additional metadata can be added to the instance registration in the`eureka.instance.metadataMap`, and this will be accessible in the remote clients, but in general will not change the behaviour of the client, unless it is made aware of the meaning of the metadata. There are a couple of special cases described below where Spring Cloud already assigns meaning to the metadata map.

### 11.7.1 Using Eureka on Cloudfoundry

Cloudfoundry has a global router so that all instances of the same app have the same hostname (it’s the same in other PaaS solutions with a similar architecture). This isn’t necessarily a barrier to using Eureka, but if you use the router (recommended, or even mandatory depending on the way your platform was set up), you need to explicitly set the hostname and port numbers (secure or non-secure) so that they use the router. You might also want to use instance metadata so you can distinguish between the instances on the client (e.g. in a custom load balancer). By default, the`eureka.instance.instanceId`is`vcap.application.instance_id`. For example:

**application.yml. **

    eureka:
      instance:
        hostname: ${vcap.application.uris[0]}
        nonSecurePort: 80
    

Depending on the way the security rules are set up in your Cloudfoundry instance, you might be able to register and use the IP address of the host VM for direct service-to-service calls. This feature is not (yet) available on Pivotal Web Services ([PWS](https://run.pivotal.io/)).Depending on the way the security rules are set up in your Cloudfoundry instance, you might be able to register and use the IP address of the host VM for direct service-to-service calls. This feature is not (yet) available on Pivotal Web Services ([PWS](https://run.pivotal.io/)).

### 11.7.2 Using Eureka on AWS

If the application is planned to be deployed to an AWS cloud, then the Eureka instance will have to be configured to be AWS aware and this can be done by customizing the[EurekaInstanceConfigBean](https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-netflix/tree/master/spring-cloud-netflix-eureka-client/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/netflix/eureka/EurekaInstanceConfigBean.java)the following way:

    @Bean
    @Profile("!default")
    public EurekaInstanceConfigBean eurekaInstanceConfig(InetUtils inetUtils) {
      EurekaInstanceConfigBean b = new EurekaInstanceConfigBean(inetUtils);
      AmazonInfo info = AmazonInfo.Builder.newBuilder().autoBuild("eureka");
      b.setDataCenterInfo(info);
      return b;
    }
    

### 11.7.3 Changing the Eureka Instance ID

A vanilla Netflix Eureka instance is registered with an ID that is equal to its host name (i.e. only one service per host). Spring Cloud Eureka provides a sensible default that looks like this:`${spring.cloud.client.hostname}:${spring.application.name}:${spring.application.instance_id:${server.port}}}`. For example`myhost:myappname:8080`.

Using Spring Cloud you can override this by providing a unique identifier in`eureka.instance.instanceId`. For example:

**application.yml.**

    eureka:
      instance:
        instanceId: ${spring.application.name}:${vcap.application.instance_id:${spring.application.instance_id:${random.value}}}
    

With this metadata, and multiple service instances deployed on localhost, the random value will kick in there to make the instance unique. In Cloudfoundry the`vcap.application.instance_id`will be populated automatically in a Spring Boot application, so the random value will not be needed.

## 11.8 Using the EurekaClient

Once you have an app that is`@EnableDiscoveryClient`(or`@EnableEurekaClient`) you can use it to discover service instances rom the[Eureka Server](http://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Dalston.SR4/multi/multi_spring-cloud-eureka-server.html). One way to do that is to use the native`com.netflix.discovery.EurekaClient`(as opposed to the Spring Cloud`DiscoveryClient`), e.g.

    @Autowired
    private EurekaClient discoveryClient;
    
    public String serviceUrl() {
        InstanceInfo instance = discoveryClient.getNextServerFromEureka("STORES", false);
        return instance.getHomePageUrl();
    }
    

> Don’t use the`EurekaClient`in`@PostConstruct`method or in a`@Scheduled`method (or anywhere where the`ApplicationContext`might not be started yet). It is initialized in a`SmartLifecycle`(with`phase=0`) so the earliest you can rely on it being available is in another`SmartLifecycle`with higher phase.

## 11.9 Alternatives to the native Netflix EurekaClient

You don’t have to use the raw Netflix`EurekaClient`and usually it is more convenient to use it behind a wrapper of some sort. Spring Cloud has support for [Feign](http://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Dalston.SR4/multi/multi_spring-cloud-feign.html) (a REST client builder) and also [Spring`RestTemplate`](http://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Dalston.SR4/multi/multi_spring-cloud-ribbon.html)using the logical Eureka service identifiers (VIPs) instead of physical URLs. To configure Ribbon with a fixed list of physical servers you can simply set`<client>.ribbon.listOfServers`to a comma-separated list of physical addresses (or hostnames), where`<client>`is the ID of the client.

You can also use the`org.springframework.cloud.client.discovery.DiscoveryClient`which provides a simple API for discovery clients that is not specific to Netflix, e.g.

    @Autowired
    private DiscoveryClient discoveryClient;
    
    public String serviceUrl() {
        List<ServiceInstance> list = discoveryClient.getInstances("STORES");
        if (list != null && list.size() > 0 ) {
            return list.get(0).getUri();
        }
        return null;
    }
    

## 11.10 Why is it so Slow to Register a Service?

Being an instance also involves a periodic heartbeat to the registry (via the client’s`serviceUrl`) with default duration 30 seconds. A service is not available for discovery by clients until the instance, the server and the client all have the same metadata in their local cache (so it could take 3 heartbeats). You can change the period using`eureka.instance.leaseRenewalIntervalInSeconds`and this will speed up the process of getting clients connected to other services. In production it’s probably better to stick with the default because there are some computations internally in the server that make assumptions about the lease renewal period.

## 11.11 Zones

If you have deployed Eureka clients to multiple zones than you may prefer that those clients leverage services within the same zone before trying services in another zone. To do this you need to configure your Eureka clients correctly.

First, you need to make sure you have Eureka servers deployed to each zone and that they are peers of each other. See the section on[zones and regions](http://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Dalston.SR4/multi/multi_spring-cloud-eureka-server.html#spring-cloud-eureka-server-zones-and-regions)for more information.

Next you need to tell Eureka which zone your service is in. You can do this using the`metadataMap`property. For example if`service 1`is deployed to both`zone 1`and`zone 2`you would need to set the following Eureka properties in`service 1`

**Service 1 in Zone 1**

    eureka.instance.metadataMap.zone = zone1
    eureka.client.preferSameZoneEureka = true
    

**Service 1 in Zone 2**

    eureka.instance.metadataMap.zone = zone2
    eureka.client.preferSameZoneEureka = true