## 12. Service Discovery: Eureka Server

## 12.1 How to Include Eureka Server

To include Eureka Server in your project use the starter with group`org.springframework.cloud`and artifact id`spring-cloud-starter-eureka-server`. See the [Spring Cloud Project page](https://projects.spring.io/spring-cloud/) for details on setting up your build system with the current Spring Cloud Release Train.

## 12.2 How to Run a Eureka Server

Example eureka server;

    @SpringBootApplication
    @EnableEurekaServer
    public class Application {
    
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            new SpringApplicationBuilder(Application.class).web(true).run(args);
        }
    }
    

The server has a home page with a UI, and HTTP API endpoints per the normal Eureka functionality under`/eureka/*`.

Eureka background reading: see [flux capacitor](https://github.com/cfregly/fluxcapacitor/wiki/NetflixOSS-FAQ#eureka-service-discovery-load-balancer) and [google group discussion](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!topic/eureka_netflix/g3p2r7gHnN0).

> Due to Gradle’s dependency resolution rules and the lack of a parent bom feature, simply depending on spring-cloud-starter-eureka-server can cause failures on application startup. To remedy this the Spring Boot Gradle plugin must be added and the Spring cloud starter parent bom must be imported like so:
> 
> **build.gradle. **
> 
>     buildscript {
>       dependencies {
>         classpath("org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-gradle-plugin:1.3.5.RELEASE")
>       }
>     }
>     
>     apply plugin: "spring-boot"
>     
>     dependencyManagement {
>       imports {
>         mavenBom "org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-dependencies:Brixton.RELEASE"
>       }
>     }
>     

## 12.3 High Availability, Zones and Regions

The Eureka server does not have a backend store, but the service instances in the registry all have to send heartbeats to keep their registrations up to date (so this can be done in memory). Clients also have an in-memory cache of eureka registrations (so they don’t have to go to the registry for every single request to a service).

By default every Eureka server is also a Eureka client and requires (at least one) service URL to locate a peer. If you don’t provide it the service will run and work, but it will shower your logs with a lot of noise about not being able to register with the peer.

See also[below for details of Ribbon support](http://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Dalston.SR4/multi/multi_spring-cloud-ribbon.html)on the client side for Zones and Regions.

## 12.4 Standalone Mode12.4 Standalone Mode

The combination of the two caches (client and server) and the heartbeats make a standalone Eureka server fairly resilient to failure, as long as there is some sort of monitor or elastic runtime keeping it alive (e.g. Cloud Foundry). In standalone mode, you might prefer to switch off the client side behaviour, so it doesn’t keep trying and failing to reach its peers. Example:

**application.yml (Standalone Eureka Server). **

    server:
      port: 8761
    
    eureka:
      instance:
        hostname: localhost
      client:
        registerWithEureka: false
        fetchRegistry: false
        serviceUrl:
          defaultZone: http://${eureka.instance.hostname}:${server.port}/eureka/
    

Notice that the`serviceUrl`is pointing to the same host as the local instance.

## 12.5 Peer Awareness

Eureka can be made even more resilient and available by running multiple instances and asking them to register with each other. In fact, this is the default behaviour, so all you need to do to make it work is add a valid`serviceUrl`to a peer, e.g.

**application.yml (Two Peer Aware Eureka Servers). **

    ---
    spring:
      profiles: peer1
    eureka:
      instance:
        hostname: peer1
      client:
        serviceUrl:
          defaultZone: http://peer2/eureka/
    
    ---
    spring:
      profiles: peer2
    eureka:
      instance:
        hostname: peer2
      client:
        serviceUrl:
          defaultZone: http://peer1/eureka/
    

In this example we have a YAML file that can be used to run the same server on 2 hosts (peer1 and peer2), by running it in different Spring profiles. You could use this configuration to test the peer awareness on a single host (there’s not much value in doing that in production) by manipulating`/etc/hosts`to resolve the host names. In fact, the`eureka.instance.hostname`is not needed if you are running on a machine that knows its own hostname (it is looked up using`java.net.InetAddress`by default).

You can add multiple peers to a system, and as long as they are all connected to each other by at least one edge, they will synchronize the registrations amongst themselves. If the peers are physically separated (inside a data centre or between multiple data centres) then the system can in principle survive split-brain type failures.

## 12.6 Prefer IP Address

In some cases, it is preferable for Eureka to advertise the IP Adresses of services rather than the hostname. Set`eureka.instance.preferIpAddress`to`true`and when the application registers with eureka, it will use its IP Address rather than its hostname.