## 15. Hystrix Timeouts And Ribbon Clients

When using Hystrix commands that wrap Ribbon clients you want to make sure your Hystrix timeout is configured to be longer than the configured Ribbon timeout, including any potential retries that might be made. For example, if your Ribbon connection timeout is one second and the Ribbon client might retry the request three times, than your Hystrix timeout should be slightly more than three seconds.

## 15.1 How to Include Hystrix Dashboard

To include the Hystrix Dashboard in your project use the starter with group`org.springframework.cloud`and artifact id`spring-cloud-starter-hystrix-dashboard`. See the[Spring Cloud Project page](https://projects.spring.io/spring-cloud/)for details on setting up your build system with the current Spring Cloud Release Train.

To run the Hystrix Dashboard annotate your Spring Boot main class with`@EnableHystrixDashboard`. You then visit`/hystrix`and point the dashboard to an individual instances`/hystrix.stream`endpoint in a Hystrix client application.

> When connecting to a`/hystrix.stream`endpoint which uses HTTPS the certificate used by the server must be trusted by the JVM. If the certificate is not trusted you must import the certificate into the JVM in order for the Hystrix Dashboard to make a successful connection to the stream endpoint.

## 15.2 Turbine

Looking at an individual instances Hystrix data is not very useful in terms of the overall health of the system.[Turbine](https://github.com/Netflix/Turbine) is an application that aggregates all of the relevant`/hystrix.stream`endpoints into a combined`/turbine.stream`for use in the Hystrix Dashboard. Individual instances are located via Eureka. Running Turbine is as simple as annotating your main class with the`@EnableTurbine`annotation \(e.g. using spring-cloud-starter-turbine to set up the classpath\). All of the documented configuration properties from [the Turbine 1 wiki](https://github.com/Netflix/Turbine/wiki/Configuration-%281.x%29) apply. The only difference is that the`turbine.instanceUrlSuffix`does not need the port prepended as this is handled automatically unless`turbine.instanceInsertPort=false`.

> By default, Turbine looks for the`/hystrix.stream`endpoint on a registered instance by looking up its`homePageUrl`entry in Eureka, then appending`/hystrix.stream`to it. This means that if`spring-boot-actuator`is running on its own port \(which is the default\), the call to`/hystrix.stream`will fail. To make turbine find the Hystrix stream at the correct port, you need to add`management.port`to the instances' metadata:

    eureka:
      instance:
        metadata-map:
          management.port: ${management.port:8081}
    

The configuration key`turbine.appConfig`is a list of eureka serviceIds that turbine will use to lookup instances. The turbine stream is then used in the Hystrix dashboard using a url that looks like:[`http://my.turbine.sever:8080/turbine.stream?cluster=CLUSTERNAME`](http://my.turbine.sever:8080/turbine.stream?cluster=CLUSTERNAME)\(the cluster parameter can be omitted if the name is "default"\). The`cluster`parameter must match an entry in`turbine.aggregator.clusterConfig`. Values returned from eureka are uppercase, thus we expect this example to work if there is an app registered with Eureka called "customers":

    turbine:
      aggregator:
        clusterConfig: CUSTOMERS
      appConfig: customers
    

The`clusterName`can be customized by a SPEL expression in`turbine.clusterNameExpression`with root an instance of`InstanceInfo`. The default value is`appName`, which means that the Eureka serviceId ends up as the cluster key \(i.e. the`InstanceInfo`for customers has an`appName`of "CUSTOMERS"\). A different example would be`turbine.clusterNameExpression=aSGName`, which would get the cluster name from the AWS ASG name. Another example:

    turbine:
      aggregator:
        clusterConfig: SYSTEM,USER
      appConfig: customers,stores,ui,admin
      clusterNameExpression: metadata['cluster']
    

In this case, the cluster name from 4 services is pulled from their metadata map, and is expected to have values that include "SYSTEM" and "USER".

To use the "default" cluster for all apps you need a string literal expression \(with single quotes, and escaped with double quotes if it is in YAML as well\):

    turbine:
      appConfig: customers,stores
      clusterNameExpression: "'default'"
    

Spring Cloud provides a`spring-cloud-starter-turbine`that has all the dependencies you need to get a Turbine server running. Just create a Spring Boot application and annotate it with`@EnableTurbine`

> by default Spring Cloud allows Turbine to use the host and port to allow multiple processes per host, per cluster. If you want the native Netflix behaviour built into Turbine that does _not _allow multiple processes per host, per cluster \(the key to the instance id is the hostname\), then set the property`turbine.combineHostPort=false`

## 15.3 Turbine Stream

.In some environments \(e.g. in a PaaS setting\), the classic Turbine model of pulling metrics from all the distributed Hystrix commands doesn’t work. In that case you might want to have your Hystrix commands push metrics to Turbine, and Spring Cloud enables that with messaging. All you need to do on the client is add a dependency to`spring-cloud-netflix-hystrix-stream`and the`spring-cloud-starter-stream-*`of your choice \(see Spring Cloud Stream documentation for details on the brokers, and how to configure the client credentials, but it should work out of the box for a local broker\).

On the server side Just create a Spring Boot application and annotate it with`@EnableTurbineStream`and by default it will come up on port 8989 \(point your Hystrix dashboard to that port, any path\). You can customize the port using either`server.port`or`turbine.stream.port`. If you have`spring-boot-starter-web`and`spring-boot-starter-actuator`on the classpath as well, then you can open up the Actuator endpoints on a separate port \(with Tomcat by default\) by providing a`management.port`which is different.

You can then point the Hystrix Dashboard to the Turbine Stream Server instead of individual Hystrix streams. If Turbine Stream is running on port 8989 on myhost, then put[`http://myhost:8989`](http://myhost:8989/)in the stream input field in the Hystrix Dashboard. Circuits will be prefixed by their respective serviceId, followed by a dot, then the circuit name.

Spring Cloud provides a`spring-cloud-starter-turbine-stream`that has all the dependencies you need to get a Turbine Stream server running - just add the Stream binder of your choice, e.g.`spring-cloud-starter-stream-rabbit`. You need Java 8 to run the app because it is Netty-based.