## 19. Router and Filter: Zuul

Routing in an integral part of a microservice architecture. For example,`/`may be mapped to your web application,`/api/users`is mapped to the user service and`/api/shop`is mapped to the shop service.[Zuul](https://github.com/Netflix/zuul)is a JVM based router and server side load balancer by Netflix.

[Netflix uses Zuul](http://www.slideshare.net/MikeyCohen1/edge-architecture-ieee-international-conference-on-cloud-engineering-32240146/27)for the following:

* Authentication
* Insights
* Stress Testing
* Canary Testing
* Dynamic Routing
* Service Migration
* Load Shedding
* Security
* Static Response handling
* Active/Active traffic management

Zuul’s rule engine allows rules and filters to be written in essentially any JVM language, with built in support for Java and Groovy.

> The configuration property`zuul.max.host.connections`has been replaced by two new properties,`zuul.host.maxTotalConnections`and`zuul.host.maxPerRouteConnections`which default to 200 and 20 respectively.
> 
> Default Hystrix isolation pattern \(ExecutionIsolationStrategy\) for all routes is SEMAPHORE.`zuul.ribbonIsolationStrategy`can be changed to THREAD if this isolation pattern is preferred

## 19.1 How to Include Zuul

To include Zuul in your project use the starter with group`org.springframework.cloud`and artifact id`spring-cloud-starter-zuul`. See the[Spring Cloud Project page](https://projects.spring.io/spring-cloud/)for details on setting up your build system with the current Spring Cloud Release Train.

## 19.2 Embedded Zuul Reverse Proxy

Spring Cloud has created an embedded Zuul proxy to ease the development of a very common use case where a UI application wants to proxy calls to one or more back end services. This feature is useful for a user interface to proxy to the backend services it requires, avoiding the need to manage CORS and authentication concerns independently for all the backends.

To enable it, annotate a Spring Boot main class with`@EnableZuulProxy`, and this forwards local calls to the appropriate service. By convention, a service with the ID "users", will receive requests from the proxy located at`/users`\(with the prefix stripped\). The proxy uses Ribbon to locate an instance to forward to via discovery, and all requests are executed in a[hystrix command](http://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Dalston.SR4/multi/multi__router_and_filter_zuul.html#hystrix-fallbacks-for-routes), so failures will show up in Hystrix metrics, and once the circuit is open the proxy will not try to contact the service.

> the Zuul starter does not include a discovery client, so for routes based on service IDs you need to provide one of those on the classpath as well \(e.g. Eureka is one choice\).

To skip having a service automatically added, set`zuul.ignored-services`to a list of service id patterns. If a service matches a pattern that is ignored, but also included in the explicitly configured routes map, then it will be unignored. Example:

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      ignoredServices: '*'
      routes:
        users: /myusers/**
    

In this example, all services are ignored**except**"users".

To augment or change the proxy routes, you can add external configuration like the following:

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      routes:
        users: /myusers/**
    

This means that http calls to "/myusers" get forwarded to the "users" service \(for example "/myusers/101" is forwarded to "/101"\).

To get more fine-grained control over a route you can specify the path and the serviceId independently:

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      routes:
        users:
          path: /myusers/**
          serviceId: users_service
    

This means that http calls to "/myusers" get forwarded to the "users\_service" service. The route has to have a "path" which can be specified as an ant-style pattern, so "/myusers/\*" only matches one level, but "/myusers/\*\*" matches hierarchically.

The location of the backend can be specified as either a "serviceId" \(for a service from discovery\) or a "url" \(for a physical location\), e.g.

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      routes:
        users:
          path: /myusers/**
          url: http://example.com/users_service
    

These simple url-routes don’t get executed as a`HystrixCommand`nor can you loadbalance multiple URLs with Ribbon. To achieve this, specify a service-route and configure a Ribbon client for the serviceId \(this currently requires disabling Eureka support in Ribbon: see[above for more information](http://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Dalston.SR4/multi/multi_spring-cloud-ribbon.html#spring-cloud-ribbon-without-eureka)\), e.g.

**application.yml. **

    zuul:
      routes:
        users:
          path: /myusers/**
          serviceId: users
    
    ribbon:
      eureka:
        enabled: false
    
    users:
      ribbon:
        listOfServers: example.com,google.com
    

You can provide convention between serviceId and routes using regexmapper. It uses regular expression named groups to extract variables from serviceId and inject them into a route pattern.

**ApplicationConfiguration.java. **

    @Bean
    public PatternServiceRouteMapper serviceRouteMapper() {
        return new PatternServiceRouteMapper(
            "(?<name>^.+)-(?<version>v.+$)",
            "${version}/${name}");
    }
    

This means that a serviceId "myusers-v1" will be mapped to route "/v1/myusers/**". Any regular expression is accepted but all named groups must be present in both servicePattern and routePattern. If servicePattern does not match a serviceId, the default behavior is used. In the example above, a serviceId "myusers" will be mapped to route "/myusers/**" \(no version detected\) This feature is disable by default and only applies to discovered services.

To add a prefix to all mappings, set`zuul.prefix`to a value, such as`/api`. The proxy prefix is stripped from the request before the request is forwarded by default \(switch this behaviour off with`zuul.stripPrefix=false`\). You can also switch off the stripping of the service-specific prefix from individual routes, e.g.

**application.yml. **

    zuul:
      routes:
        users:
          path: /myusers/**
          stripPrefix: false
    

> `zuul.stripPrefix`only applies to the prefix set in`zuul.prefix`. It does not have any effect on prefixes defined within a given route’s`path`.

In this example, requests to "/myusers/101" will be forwarded to "/myusers/101" on the "users" service.

The`zuul.routes`entries actually bind to an object of type`ZuulProperties`. If you look at the properties of that object you will see that it also has a "retryable" flag. Set that flag to "true" to have the Ribbon client automatically retry failed requests \(and if you need to you can modify the parameters of the retry operations using the Ribbon client configuration\).

The`X-Forwarded-Host`header is added to the forwarded requests by default. To turn it off set`zuul.addProxyHeaders = false`. The prefix path is stripped by default, and the request to the backend picks up a header "X-Forwarded-Prefix" \("/myusers" in the examples above\).

An application with`@EnableZuulProxy`could act as a standalone server if you set a default route \("/"\), for example`zuul.route.home: /`would route all traffic \(i.e. "/**"\) to the "home" service.

If more fine-grained ignoring is needed, you can specify specific patterns to ignore. These patterns are evaluated at the start of the route location process, which means prefixes should be included in the pattern to warrant a match. Ignored patterns span all services and supersede any other route specification.

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      ignoredPatterns: /**/admin/**
      routes:
        users: /myusers/**
    

This means that all calls such as "/myusers/101" will be forwarded to "/101" on the "users" service. But calls including "/admin/" will not resolve.

> If you need your routes to have their order preserved you need to use a YAML file as the ordering will be lost using a properties file. For example:

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      routes:
        users:
          path: /myusers/**
        legacy:
          path: /**
    

If you were to use a properties file, the`legacy`path may end up in front of the`users`path rendering the`users`path unreachable.

## 19.3 Zuul Http Client

The default HTTP client used by zuul is now backed by the Apache HTTP Client instead of the deprecated Ribbon`RestClient`. To use`RestClient`or to use the`okhttp3.OkHttpClient`set`ribbon.restclient.enabled=true`or`ribbon.okhttp.enabled=true`respectively.

## 19.4 Cookies and Sensitive Headers

It’s OK to share headers between services in the same system, but you probably don’t want sensitive headers leaking downstream into external servers. You can specify a list of ignored headers as part of the route configuration. Cookies play a special role because they have well-defined semantics in browsers, and they are always to be treated as sensitive. If the consumer of your proxy is a browser, then cookies for downstream services also cause problems for the user because they all get jumbled up \(all downstream services look like they come from the same place\).

If you are careful with the design of your services, for example if only one of the downstream services sets cookies, then you might be able to let them flow from the backend all the way up to the caller. Also, if your proxy sets cookies and all your back end services are part of the same system, it can be natural to simply share them \(and for instance use Spring Session to link them up to some shared state\). Other than that, any cookies that get set by downstream services are likely to be not very useful to the caller, so it is recommended that you make \(at least\) "Set-Cookie" and "Cookie" into sensitive headers for routes that are not part of your domain. Even for routes that**are**part of your domain, try to think carefully about what it means before allowing cookies to flow between them and the proxy.

The sensitive headers can be configured as a comma-separated list per route, e.g.

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      routes:
        users:
          path: /myusers/**
          sensitiveHeaders: Cookie,Set-Cookie,Authorization
          url: https://downstream
    

> this is the default value for`sensitiveHeaders`, so you don’t need to set it unless you want it to be different. N.B. this is new in Spring Cloud Netflix 1.1 \(in 1.0 the user had no control over headers and all cookies flow in both directions\).

The`sensitiveHeaders`are a blacklist and the default is not empty, so to make Zuul send all headers \(except the "ignored" ones\) you would have to explicitly set it to the empty list. This is necessary if you want to pass cookie or authorization headers to your back end. Example:

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      routes:
        users:
          path: /myusers/**
          sensitiveHeaders:
          url: https://downstream
    

Sensitive headers can also be set globally by setting`zuul.sensitiveHeaders`. If`sensitiveHeaders`is set on a route, this will override the global`sensitiveHeaders`setting.

## 19.5 Ignored Headers

In addition to the per-route sensitive headers, you can set a global value for`zuul.ignoredHeaders`for values that should be discarded \(both request and response\) during interactions with downstream services. By default these are empty, if Spring Security is not on the classpath, and otherwise they are initialized to a set of well-known "security" headers \(e.g. involving caching\) as specified by Spring Security. The assumption in this case is that the downstream services might add these headers too, and we want the values from the proxy. To not discard these well known security headers in case Spring Security is on the classpath you can set`zuul.ignoreSecurityHeaders`to`false`. This can be useful if you disabled the HTTP Security response headers in Spring Security and want the values provided by downstream services

## 19.6 The Routes Endpoint

If you are using`@EnableZuulProxy`with tha Spring Boot Actuator you will enable \(by default\) an additional endpoint, available via HTTP as`/routes`. A GET to this endpoint will return a list of the mapped routes. A POST will force a refresh of the existing routes \(e.g. in case there have been changes in the service catalog\). You can disable this endpoint by setting`endpoints.routes.enabled`to`false`.

> the routes should respond automatically to changes in the service catalog, but the POST to /routes is a way to force the change to happen immediately.

## 19.7 Strangulation Patterns and Local Forwards

A common pattern when migrating an existing application or API is to "strangle" old endpoints, slowly replacing them with different implementations. The Zuul proxy is a useful tool for this because you can use it to handle all traffic from clients of the old endpoints, but redirect some of the requests to new ones.

Example configuration:

**application.yml. **

    zuul:
      routes:
        first:
          path: /first/**
          url: http://first.example.com
        second:
          path: /second/**
          url: forward:/second
        third:
          path: /third/**
          url: forward:/3rd
        legacy:
          path: /**
          url: http://legacy.example.com
    

In this example we are strangling the "legacy" app which is mapped to all requests that do not match one of the other patterns. Paths in`/first/**`have been extracted into a new service with an external URL. And paths in`/second/**`are forwarded so they can be handled locally, e.g. with a normal Spring`@RequestMapping`. Paths in`/third/**`are also forwarded, but with a different prefix \(i.e.`/third/foo`is forwarded to`/3rd/foo`\).

> The ignored patterns aren’t completely ignored, they just aren’t handled by the proxy \(so they are also effectively forwarded locally\).

## 19.8 Uploading Files through Zuul

If you`@EnableZuulProxy`you can use the proxy paths to upload files and it should just work as long as the files are small. For large files there is an alternative path which bypasses the Spring`DispatcherServlet`\(to avoid multipart processing\) in "/zuul/*". I.e. if`zuul.routes.customers=/customers/**`then you can POST large files to "/zuul/customers/*". The servlet path is externalized via`zuul.servletPath`. Extremely large files will also require elevated timeout settings if the proxy route takes you through a Ribbon load balancer, e.g.

**application.yml. **

    hystrix.command.default.execution.isolation.thread.timeoutInMilliseconds: 60000
    ribbon:
      ConnectTimeout: 3000
      ReadTimeout: 60000
    

Note that for streaming to work with large files, you need to use chunked encoding in the request \(which some browsers do not do by default\). E.g. on the command line:

    $ curl -v -H "Transfer-Encoding: chunked" \
        -F "file=@mylarge.iso" localhost:9999/zuul/simple/file
    

## 19.9 Query String Encoding

When processing the incoming request, query params are decoded so they can be available for possible modifications in Zuul filters. They are then re-encoded when building the backend request in the route filters. The result can be different than the original input if it was encoded using Javascript’s`encodeURIComponent()`method for example. While this causes no issues in most cases, some web servers can be picky with the encoding of complex query string.

To force the original encoding of the query string, it is possible to pass a special flag to`ZuulProperties`so that the query string is taken as is with the`HttpServletRequest::getQueryString`method :

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      forceOriginalQueryStringEncoding: true
    

**Note:**This special flag only works with`SimpleHostRoutingFilter`and you loose the ability to easily override query parameters with`RequestContext.getCurrentContext().setRequestQueryParams(someOverriddenParameters)`since the query string is now fetched directly on the original`HttpServletRequest`.

## 19.10 Plain Embedded Zuul

You can also run a Zuul server without the proxying, or switch on parts of the proxying platform selectively, if you use`@EnableZuulServer`\(instead of`@EnableZuulProxy`\). Any beans that you add to the application of type`ZuulFilter`will be installed automatically, as they are with`@EnableZuulProxy`, but without any of the proxy filters being added automatically.

In this case the routes into the Zuul server are still specified by configuring "zuul.routes.\*", but there is no service discovery and no proxying, so the "serviceId" and "url" settings are ignored. For example:

**application.yml. **

     zuul:
      routes:
        api: /api/**
    

maps all paths in "/api/**" to the Zuul filter chain.

## 19.11 Disable Zuul Filters

Zuul for Spring Cloud comes with a number of`ZuulFilter`beans enabled by default in both proxy and server mode. See[the zuul filters package](https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-netflix/tree/master/spring-cloud-netflix-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/netflix/zuul/filters)for the possible filters that are enabled. If you want to disable one, simply set`zuul.<SimpleClassName>.<filterType>.disable=true`. By convention, the package after`filters`is the Zuul filter type. For example to disable`org.springframework.cloud.netflix.zuul.filters.post.SendResponseFilter`set`zuul.SendResponseFilter.post.disable=true`.

## 19.12 Providing Hystrix Fallbacks For Routes

When a circuit for a given route in Zuul is tripped you can provide a fallback response by creating a bean of type`ZuulFallbackProvider`. Within this bean you need to specify the route ID the fallback is for and provide a`ClientHttpResponse`to return as a fallback. Here is a very simple`ZuulFallbackProvider`implementation.

    class MyFallbackProvider implements ZuulFallbackProvider {
        @Override
        public String getRoute() {
            return "customers";
        }
    
        @Override
        public ClientHttpResponse fallbackResponse() {
            return new ClientHttpResponse() {
                @Override
                public HttpStatus getStatusCode() throws IOException {
                    return HttpStatus.OK;
                }
    
                @Override
                public int getRawStatusCode() throws IOException {
                    return 200;
                }
    
                @Override
                public String getStatusText() throws IOException {
                    return "OK";
                }
    
                @Override
                public void close() {
    
                }
    
                @Override
                public InputStream getBody() throws IOException {
                    return new ByteArrayInputStream("fallback".getBytes());
                }
    
                @Override
                public HttpHeaders getHeaders() {
                    HttpHeaders headers = new HttpHeaders();
                    headers.setContentType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON);
                    return headers;
                }
            };
        }
    }
    

And here is what the route configuration would look like.

    zuul:
      routes:
        customers: /customers/**
    

If you would like to provide a default fallback for all routes than you can create a bean of type`ZuulFallbackProvider`and have the`getRoute`method return`*`or`null`.

    class MyFallbackProvider implements ZuulFallbackProvider {
        @Override
        public String getRoute() {
            return "*";
        }
    
        @Override
        public ClientHttpResponse fallbackResponse() {
            return new ClientHttpResponse() {
                @Override
                public HttpStatus getStatusCode() throws IOException {
                    return HttpStatus.OK;
                }
    
                @Override
                public int getRawStatusCode() throws IOException {
                    return 200;
                }
    
                @Override
                public String getStatusText() throws IOException {
                    return "OK";
                }
    
                @Override
                public void close() {
    
                }
    
                @Override
                public InputStream getBody() throws IOException {
                    return new ByteArrayInputStream("fallback".getBytes());
                }
    
                @Override
                public HttpHeaders getHeaders() {
                    HttpHeaders headers = new HttpHeaders();
                    headers.setContentType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON);
                    return headers;
                }
            };
        }
    }
    

## 19.13 Zuul Developer Guide

For a general overview of how Zuul works, please see[the Zuul Wiki](https://github.com/Netflix/zuul/wiki/How-it-Works).

### 19.13.1 The Zuul Servlet

Zuul is implemented as a Servlet. For the general cases, Zuul is embedded into the Spring Dispatch mechanism. This allows Spring MVC to be in control of the routing. In this case, Zuul is configured to buffer requests. If there is a need to go through Zuul without buffering requests \(e.g. for large file uploads\), the Servlet is also installed outside of the Spring Dispatcher. By default, this is located at`/zuul`. This path can be changed with the`zuul.servlet-path`property.

### 19.13.2 Zuul RequestContext

To pass information between filters, Zuul uses a[`RequestContext`](https://github.com/Netflix/zuul/blob/1.x/zuul-core/src/main/java/com/netflix/zuul/context/RequestContext.java). Its data is held in a`ThreadLocal`specific to each request. Information about where to route requests, errors and the actual`HttpServletRequest`and`HttpServletResponse`are stored there. The`RequestContext`extends`ConcurrentHashMap`, so anything can be stored in the context.[`FilterConstants`](https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-netflix/blob/master/spring-cloud-netflix-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/netflix/zuul/filters/support/FilterConstants.java)contains the keys that are used by the filters installed by Spring Cloud Netflix \(more on these later\).

### 19.13.3 `@EnableZuulProxy`vs.`@EnableZuulServer`

Spring Cloud Netflix installs a number of filters based on which annotation was used to enable Zuul.`@EnableZuulProxy`is a superset of`@EnableZuulServer`. In other words,`@EnableZuulProxy`contains all filters installed by`@EnableZuulServer`. The additional filters in the "proxy" enable routing functionality. If you want a "blank" Zuul, you should use`@EnableZuulServer`.

### 19.13.4 `@EnableZuulServer`Filters

Creates a`SimpleRouteLocator`that loads route definitions from Spring Boot configuration files.

The following filters are installed \(as normal Spring Beans\):

Pre filters:

* `ServletDetectionFilter`: Detects if the request is through the Spring Dispatcher. Sets boolean with key`FilterConstants.IS_DISPATCHER_SERVLET_REQUEST_KEY`.
* `FormBodyWrapperFilter`: Parses form data and reencodes it for downstream requests.
* `DebugFilter`: if the`debug`request parameter is set, this filter sets`RequestContext.setDebugRouting()`and`RequestContext.setDebugRequest()`to true.

Route filters:

* `SendForwardFilter`: This filter forwards requests using the Servlet`RequestDispatcher`. The forwarding location is stored in the`RequestContext`attribute`FilterConstants.FORWARD_TO_KEY`. This is useful for forwarding to endpoints in the current application.Post filters:

* `SendResponseFilter`: Writes responses from proxied requests to the current response.

Error filters:

* `SendErrorFilter`: Forwards to /error \(by default\) if`RequestContext.getThrowable()`is not null. The default forwarding path \( `/error`\) can be changed by setting the`error.path`property.

### 19.13.5 `@EnableZuulProxy`Filters

Creates a`DiscoveryClientRouteLocator`that loads route definitions from a`DiscoveryClient`\(like Eureka\), as well as from properties. A route is created for each`serviceId`from the`DiscoveryClient`. As new services are added, the routes will be refreshed.

In addition to the filters described above, the following filters are installed \(as normal Spring Beans\):Pre filters:

* `PreDecorationFilter`: This filter determines where and how to route based on the supplied`RouteLocator`. It also sets various proxy-related headers for downstream requests.Route filters:

* `RibbonRoutingFilter`: This filter uses Ribbon, Hystrix and pluggable HTTP clients to send requests. Service ids are found in the`RequestContext`attribute`FilterConstants.SERVICE_ID_KEY`. This filter can use different HTTP clients. They are:
    
    * Apache`HttpClient`. This is the default client.
    * Squareup`OkHttpClient`v3. This is enabled by having the`com.squareup.okhttp3:okhttp`library on the classpath and setting`ribbon.okhttp.enabled=true`.
    * Netflix Ribbon HTTP client. This is enabled by setting`ribbon.restclient.enabled=true`. This client has limitations, such as it doesn’t support the PATCH method, but also has built-in retry.

* `SimpleHostRoutingFilter`: This filter sends requests to predetermined URLs via an Apache HttpClient. URLs are found in `RequestContext.getRouteHost()`.

### 19.13.6 Custom Zuul Filter examples

Most of the following "How to Write" examples below are included[Sample Zuul Filters](https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/sample-zuul-filters)project. There are also examples of manipulating the request or response body in that repository.

### 19.13.7 How to Write a Pre Filter

Pre filters are used to set up data in the`RequestContext`for use in filters downstream. The main use case is to set information required for route filters.

    public class QueryParamPreFilter extends ZuulFilter {
        @Override
        public int filterOrder() {
            return PRE_DECORATION_FILTER_ORDER - 1; // run before PreDecoration
        }
    
        @Override
        public String filterType() {
            return PRE_TYPE;
        }
    
        @Override
        public boolean shouldFilter() {
            RequestContext ctx = RequestContext.getCurrentContext();
            return !ctx.containsKey(FORWARD_TO_KEY) // a filter has already forwarded
                    && !ctx.containsKey(SERVICE_ID_KEY); // a filter has already determined serviceId
        }
        @Override
        public Object run() {
            RequestContext ctx = RequestContext.getCurrentContext();
            HttpServletRequest request = ctx.getRequest();
            if (request.getParameter("foo") != null) {
                // put the serviceId in `RequestContext`
                ctx.put(SERVICE_ID_KEY, request.getParameter("foo"));
            }
            return null;
        }
    }
    

The filter above populates`SERVICE_ID_KEY`from the`foo`request parameter. In reality, it’s not a good idea to do that kind of direct mapping, but the service id should be looked up from the value of`foo`instead.

Now that`SERVICE_ID_KEY`is populated,`PreDecorationFilter`won’t run and`RibbonRoutingFilter`will. If you wanted to route to a full URL instead, call`ctx.setRouteHost(url)`instead.

To modify the path that routing filters will forward to, set the`REQUEST_URI_KEY`.

### 19.13.8 How to Write a Route Filter

Route filters are run after pre filters and are used to make requests to other services. Much of the work here is to translate request and response data to and from the client required model.

    public class OkHttpRoutingFilter extends ZuulFilter {
        @Autowired
        private ProxyRequestHelper helper;
    
        @Override
        public String filterType() {
            return ROUTE_TYPE;
        }
    
        @Override
        public int filterOrder() {
            return SIMPLE_HOST_ROUTING_FILTER_ORDER - 1;
        }
    
        @Override
        public boolean shouldFilter() {
            return RequestContext.getCurrentContext().getRouteHost() != null
                    && RequestContext.getCurrentContext().sendZuulResponse();
        }
    
        @Override
        public Object run() {
            OkHttpClient httpClient = new OkHttpClient.Builder()
                    // customize
                    .build();
    
            RequestContext context = RequestContext.getCurrentContext();
            HttpServletRequest request = context.getRequest();
    
            String method = request.getMethod();
    
            String uri = this.helper.buildZuulRequestURI(request);
    
            Headers.Builder headers = new Headers.Builder();
            Enumeration<String> headerNames = request.getHeaderNames();
            while (headerNames.hasMoreElements()) {
                String name = headerNames.nextElement();
                Enumeration<String> values = request.getHeaders(name);
    
                while (values.hasMoreElements()) {
                    String value = values.nextElement();
                    headers.add(name, value);
                }
            }
    
            InputStream inputStream = request.getInputStream();
    
            RequestBody requestBody = null;
            if (inputStream != null && HttpMethod.permitsRequestBody(method)) {
                MediaType mediaType = null;
                if (headers.get("Content-Type") != null) {
                    mediaType = MediaType.parse(headers.get("Content-Type"));
                }
                requestBody = RequestBody.create(mediaType, StreamUtils.copyToByteArray(inputStream));
            }
    
            Request.Builder builder = new Request.Builder()
                    .headers(headers.build())
                    .url(uri)
                    .method(method, requestBody);
    
            Response response = httpClient.newCall(builder.build()).execute();
    
            LinkedMultiValueMap<String, String> responseHeaders = new LinkedMultiValueMap<>();
    
            for (Map.Entry<String, List<String>> entry : response.headers().toMultimap().entrySet()) {
                responseHeaders.put(entry.getKey(), entry.getValue());
            }
    
            this.helper.setResponse(response.code(), response.body().byteStream(),
                    responseHeaders);
            context.setRouteHost(null); // prevent SimpleHostRoutingFilter from running
            return null;
        }
    }
    

The above filter translates Servlet request information into OkHttp3 request information, executes an HTTP request, then translates OkHttp3 reponse information to the Servlet response. WARNING: this filter might have bugs and not function correctly.

### 19.13.9 How to Write a Post Filter

Post filters typically manipulate the response. In the filter below, we add a random`UUID`as the`X-Foo`header. Other manipulations, such as transforming the response body, are much more complex and compute-intensive.

    public class AddResponseHeaderFilter extends ZuulFilter {
        @Override
        public String filterType() {
            return POST_TYPE;
        }
    
        @Override
        public int filterOrder() {
            return SEND_RESPONSE_FILTER_ORDER - 1;
        }
    
        @Override
        public boolean shouldFilter() {
            return true;
        }
    
        @Override
        public Object run() {
            RequestContext context = RequestContext.getCurrentContext();
            HttpServletResponse servletResponse = context.getResponse();
            servletResponse.addHeader("X-Foo", UUID.randomUUID().toString());
            return null;
        }
    }
    

### 19.13.10 How Zuul Errors Work

If an exception is thrown during any portion of the Zuul filter lifecycle, the error filters are executed. The`SendErrorFilter`is only run if`RequestContext.getThrowable()`is not`null`. It then sets specific`javax.servlet.error.*`attributes in the request and forwards the request to the Spring Boot error page.

### 19.13.11 Zuul Eager Application Context Loading

Zuul internally uses Ribbon for calling the remote url’s and Ribbon clients are by default lazily loaded up by Spring Cloud on first call. This behavior can be changed for Zuul using the following configuration and will result in the child Ribbon related Application contexts being eagerly loaded up at application startup time.

**application.yml. **

    zuul:
      ribbon:
        eager-load:
          enabled: true