## 16. Client Side Load Balancer: Ribbon

Ribbon is a client side load balancer which gives you a lot of control over the behaviour of HTTP and TCP clients. Feign already uses Ribbon, so if you are using`@FeignClient`then this section also applies.

A central concept in Ribbon is that of the named client. Each load balancer is part of an ensemble of components that work together to contact a remote server on demand, and the ensemble has a name that you give it as an application developer (e.g. using the`@FeignClient`annotation). Spring Cloud creates a new ensemble as an`ApplicationContext`on demand for each named client using`RibbonClientConfiguration`. This contains (amongst other things) an`ILoadBalancer`, a`RestClient`, and a`ServerListFilter`.

## 16.1 How to Include Ribbon

To include Ribbon in your project use the starter with group`org.springframework.cloud`and artifact id`spring-cloud-starter-ribbon`. See the[Spring Cloud Project page](https://projects.spring.io/spring-cloud/)for details on setting up your build system with the current Spring Cloud Release Train.

## 16.2 Customizing the Ribbon Client

You can configure some bits of a Ribbon client using external properties in`<client>.ribbon.*`, which is no different than using the Netflix APIs natively, except that you can use Spring Boot configuration files. The native options can be inspected as static fields in`CommonClientConfigKey`(part of ribbon-core).

Spring Cloud also lets you take full control of the client by declaring additional configuration (on top of the`RibbonClientConfiguration`) using`@RibbonClient`. Example:

    @Configuration
    @RibbonClient(name = "foo", configuration = FooConfiguration.class)
    public class TestConfiguration {
    }
    

In this case the client is composed from the components already in`RibbonClientConfiguration`together with any in`FooConfiguration`(where the latter generally will override the former).

> The`FooConfiguration`has to be`@Configuration`but take care that it is not in a`@ComponentScan`for the main application context, otherwise it will be shared by all the`@RibbonClients`. If you use`@ComponentScan`(or`@SpringBootApplication`) you need to take steps to avoid it being included (for instance put it in a separate, non-overlapping package, or specify the packages to scan explicitly in the`@ComponentScan`).

Spring Cloud Netflix provides the following beans by default for ribbon (`BeanType`beanName:`ClassName`):

* `IClientConfig`ribbonClientConfig:`DefaultClientConfigImpl`
* `IRule`ribbonRule:`ZoneAvoidanceRule`
* `IPing`ribbonPing:`NoOpPing`
* `ServerList<Server>`ribbonServerList:`ConfigurationBasedServerList`
* `ServerListFilter<Server>`ribbonServerListFilter:`ZonePreferenceServerListFilter`
* `ILoadBalancer`ribbonLoadBalancer:`ZoneAwareLoadBalancer`
* `ServerListUpdater`ribbonServerListUpdater:`PollingServerListUpdater`

Creating a bean of one of those type and placing it in a`@RibbonClient`configuration (such as`FooConfiguration`above) allows you to override each one of the beans described. Example:

    @Configuration
    public class FooConfiguration {
        @Bean
        public IPing ribbonPing(IClientConfig config) {
            return new PingUrl();
        }
    }
    

This replaces the`NoOpPing`with`PingUrl`.

## 16.3 Customizing the Ribbon Client using properties

Starting with version 1.2.0, Spring Cloud Netflix now supports customizing Ribbon clients using properties to be compatible with the [Ribbon documentation](https://github.com/Netflix/ribbon/wiki/Working-with-load-balancers#components-of-load-balancer).

This allows you to change behavior at start up time in different environments.

The supported properties are listed below and should be prefixed by`<clientName>.ribbon.`:

* `NFLoadBalancerClassName`: should implement`ILoadBalancer`
* `NFLoadBalancerRuleClassName`: should implement`IRule`
* `NFLoadBalancerPingClassName`: should implement`IPing`
* `NIWSServerListClassName`: should implement`ServerList`
* `NIWSServerListFilterClassName`should implement`ServerListFilter`

> Classes defined in these properties have precedence over beans defined using`@RibbonClient(configuration=MyRibbonConfig.class)`and the defaults provided by Spring Cloud Netflix.

To set the`IRule`for a service name`users`you could set the following:

**application.yml. **

    users:
      ribbon:
        NFLoadBalancerRuleClassName: com.netflix.loadbalancer.WeightedResponseTimeRule
    

See the [Ribbon documentation](https://github.com/Netflix/ribbon/wiki/Working-with-load-balancers) for implementations provided by Ribbon.

## 16.4 Using Ribbon with Eureka

When Eureka is used in conjunction with Ribbon (i.e., both are on the classpath) the`ribbonServerList`is overridden with an extension of`DiscoveryEnabledNIWSServerList`which populates the list of servers from Eureka. It also replaces the`IPing`interface with`NIWSDiscoveryPing`which delegates to Eureka to determine if a server is up. The`ServerList`that is installed by default is a`DomainExtractingServerList`and the purpose of this is to make physical metadata available to the load balancer without using AWS AMI metadata (which is what Netflix relies on). By default the server list will be constructed with "zone" information as provided in the instance metadata (so on the remote clients set`eureka.instance.metadataMap.zone`), and if that is missing it can use the domain name from the server hostname as a proxy for zone (if the flag`approximateZoneFromHostname`is set). Once the zone information is available it can be used in a`ServerListFilter`. By default it will be used to locate a server in the same zone as the client because the default is a`ZonePreferenceServerListFilter`. The zone of the client is determined the same way as the remote instances by default, i.e. via`eureka.instance.metadataMap.zone`.

> The orthodox "archaius" way to set the client zone is via a configuration property called "@zone", and Spring Cloud will use that in preference to all other settings if it is available (note that the key will have to be quoted in YAML configuration).
> 
> If there is no other source of zone data then a guess is made based on the client configuration (as opposed to the instance configuration). We take`eureka.client.availabilityZones`, which is a map from region name to a list of zones, and pull out the first zone for the instance’s own region (i.e. the`eureka.client.region`, which defaults to "us-east-1" for comatibility with native Netflix).

## 16.5 Example: How to Use Ribbon Without Eureka

Eureka is a convenient way to abstract the discovery of remote servers so you don’t have to hard code their URLs in clients, but if you prefer not to use it, Ribbon and Feign are still quite amenable. Suppose you have declared a`@RibbonClient`for "stores", and Eureka is not in use (and not even on the classpath). The Ribbon client defaults to a configured server list, and you can supply the configuration like this

**application.yml. **

    stores:
      ribbon:
        listOfServers: example.com,google.com
    

## 16.6 Example: Disable Eureka use in Ribbon

Setting the property`ribbon.eureka.enabled = false`will explicitly disable the use of Eureka in Ribbon.

**application.yml. **

    ribbon:
      eureka:
       enabled: false
    

## 16.7 Using the Ribbon API Directly

You can also use the`LoadBalancerClient`directly. Example:

    public class MyClass {
        @Autowired
        private LoadBalancerClient loadBalancer;
    
        public void doStuff() {
            ServiceInstance instance = loadBalancer.choose("stores");
            URI storesUri = URI.create(String.format("http://%s:%s", instance.getHost(), instance.getPort()));
            // ... do something with the URI
        }
    }
    

## 16.8 Caching of Ribbon Configuration

Each Ribbon named client has a corresponding child Application Context that Spring Cloud maintains, this application context is lazily loaded up on the first request to the named client. This lazy loading behavior can be changed to instead eagerly load up these child Application contexts at startup by specifying the names of the Ribbon clients.

**application.yml. **

    ribbon:
      eager-load:
        enabled: true
        clients: client1, client2, client3