## 5. Spring Cloud Config Server

The Server provides an HTTP, resource-based API for external configuration \(name-value pairs, or equivalent YAML content\). The server is easily embeddable in a Spring Boot application using the`@EnableConfigServer`annotation. So this app is a config server:

**ConfigServer.java. **

    @SpringBootApplication
    @EnableConfigServer
    public
    class
     ConfigServer {
    
    public
    static
    void
     main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(ConfigServer.
    class
    , args);
      }
    }
    

Like all Spring Boot apps it runs on port 8080 by default, but you can switch it to the conventional port 8888 in various ways. The easiest, which also sets a default configuration repository, is by launching it with`spring.config.name=configserver`\(there is a`configserver.yml`in the Config Server jar\). Another is to use your own`application.properties`, e.g.

**application.properties. **

    server.port
    : 8888
    
    spring.cloud.config.server.git.uri
    : file://${user.home}/config-repo
    

where`${user.home}/config-repo`is a git repository containing YAML and properties files.

> in Windows you need an extra "/" in the file URL if it is absolute with a drive prefix, e.g.[`file:///${user.home}/config-repo`](file:///${user.home}/config-repo).
> 
> Here’s a recipe for creating the git repository in the example above:
> 
>     $ cd $HOME
>     $ mkdir config-repo
>     $ cd config-repo
>     $ git init .
>     $ echo info.foo: bar 
>     >
>      application.properties
>     $ git add -A .
>     $ git commit -m "Add application.properties"
>     
> 
> using the local filesystem for your git repository is intended for testing only. Use a server to host your configuration repositories in production.
> 
> the initial clone of your configuration repository will be quick and efficient if you only keep text files in it. If you start to store binary files, especially large ones, you may experience delays on the first request for configuration and/or out of memory errors in the server.

## 5.1 Environment Repository

Where do you want to store the configuration data for the Config Server? The strategy that governs this behaviour is the`EnvironmentRepository`, serving`Environment`objects. This`Environment`is a shallow copy of the domain from the Spring`Environment`\(including`propertySources`as the main feature\). The`Environment`resources are parametrized by three variables:

* `{application}`maps to "spring.application.name" on the client side;
* `{profile}`maps to "spring.profiles.active" on the client \(comma separated list\); and
* `{label}`which is a server side feature labelling a "versioned" set of config files.

Repository implementations generally behave just like a Spring Boot application loading configuration files from a "spring.config.name" equal to the`{application}`parameter, and "spring.profiles.active" equal to the`{profiles}`parameter. Precedence rules for profiles are also the same as in a regular Boot application: active profiles take precedence over defaults, and if there are multiple profiles the last one wins \(like adding entries to a`Map`\).

Example: a client application has this bootstrap configuration:

**bootstrap.yml. **

    spring:
      application:
        name: foo
      profiles:
        active: dev,mysql
    

\(as usual with a Spring Boot application, these properties could also be set as environment variables or command line arguments\).

If the repository is file-based, the server will create an`Environment`from`application.yml`\(shared between all clients\), and`foo.yml`\(with`foo.yml`taking precedence\). If the YAML files have documents inside them that point to Spring profiles, those are applied with higher precedence \(in order of the profiles listed\), and if there are profile-specific YAML \(or properties\) files these are also applied with higher precedence than the defaults. Higher precedence translates to a`PropertySource`listed earlier in the`Environment`. \(These are the same rules as apply in a standalone Spring Boot application.\)

### 5.1.1 Git Backend

The default implementation of`EnvironmentRepository`uses a Git backend, which is very convenient for managing upgrades and physical environments, and also for auditing changes. To change the location of the repository you can set the "spring.cloud.config.server.git.uri" configuration property in the Config Server \(e.g. in`application.yml`\). If you set it with a`file:`prefix it should work from a local repository so you can get started quickly and easily without a server, but in that case the server operates directly on the local repository without cloning it \(it doesn’t matter if it’s not bare because the Config Server never makes changes to the "remote" repository\). To scale the Config Server up and make it highly available, you would need to have all instances of the server pointing to the same repository, so only a shared file system would work. Even in that case it is better to use the`ssh:`protocol for a shared filesystem repository, so that the server can clone it and use a local working copy as a cache.

This repository implementation maps the`{label}`parameter of the HTTP resource to a git label \(commit id, branch name or tag\). If the git branch or tag name contains a slash \("/"\) then the label in the HTTP URL should be specified with the special string "\(\_\)" instead \(to avoid ambiguity with other URL paths\). For example, if the label is`foo/bar`, replacing the slash would result in a label that looks like`foo(_)bar`. Be careful with the brackets in the URL if you are using a command line client like curl \(e.g. escape them from the shell with quotes ''\).

#### Placeholders in Git URI

Spring Cloud Config Server supports a git repository URL with placeholders for the`{application}`and`{profile}`\(and`{label}`if you need it, but remember that the label is applied as a git label anyway\). So you can easily support a "one repo per application" policy using \(for example\):

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://github.com/myorg/{application}
    

or a "one repo per profile" policy using a similar pattern but with`{profile}`.

#### Pattern Matching and Multiple Repositories

There is also support for more complex requirements with pattern matching on the application and profile name. The pattern format is a comma-separated list of`{application}/{profile}`names with wildcards \(where a pattern beginning with a wildcard may need to be quoted\). Example:

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
              repos:
                simple: https://github.com/simple/config-repo
                special:
                  pattern: special*/dev*,*special*/dev*
                  uri: https://github.com/special/config-repo
                local:
                  pattern: local*
                  uri: file:/home/configsvc/config-repo
    

If`{application}/{profile}`does not match any of the patterns, it will use the default uri defined under "spring.cloud.config.server.git.uri". In the above example, for the "simple" repository, the pattern is`simple/*`

\(i.e. it only matches one application named "simple" in all profiles\). The "local" repository matches all application names beginning with "local" in all profiles \(the`/*`suffix is added automatically to any pattern that doesn’t have a profile matcher\).

> the "one-liner" short cut used in the "simple" example above can only be used if the only property to be set is the URI. If you need to set anything else \(credentials, pattern, etc.\) you need to use the full form.

The`pattern`property in the repo is actually an array, so you can use a YAML array \(or`[0]`,`[1]`, etc. suffixes in properties files\) to bind to multiple patterns. You may need to do this if you are going to run apps with multiple profiles. Example:

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
              repos:
                development:
                  pattern:
    
                    - '*/development'
                    - '*/staging'
                  uri: https://github.com/development/config-repo
                staging:
                  pattern:
                    - '*/qa'
                    - '*/production'
                  uri: https://github.com/staging/config-repo
    

> Spring Cloud will guess that a pattern containing a profile that doesn’t end in`*`implies that you actually want to match a list of profiles starting with this pattern \(so`*/staging`is a shortcut for`["*/staging", "*/staging,*"]`\). This is common where you need to run apps in the "development" profile locally but also the "cloud" profile remotely, for instance.

Every repository can also optionally store config files in sub-directories, and patterns to search for those directories can be specified as`searchPaths`. For example at the top level:

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
              searchPaths: foo,bar*
    

In this example the server searches for config files in the top level and in the "foo/" sub-directory and also any sub-directory whose name begins with "bar".

By default the server clones remote repositories when configuration is first requested. The server can be configured to clone the repositories at startup. For example at the top level:

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://git/common/config-repo.git
              repos:
                team-a:
                    pattern: team-a-*
                    cloneOnStart: true
                    uri: http://git/team-a/config-repo.git
                team-b:
                    pattern: team-b-*
                    cloneOnStart: false
                    uri: http://git/team-b/config-repo.git
                team-c:
                    pattern: team-c-*
                    uri: http://git/team-a/config-repo.git
    

In this example the server clones team-a’s config-repo on startup before it accepts any requests. All other repositories will not be cloned until configuration from the repository is requested.

> Setting a repository to be cloned when the Config Server starts up can help to identify a misconfigured configuration source \(e.g., an invalid repository URI\) quickly, while the Config Server is starting up. With`cloneOnStart`
> 
> not enabled for a configuration source, the Config Server may start successfully with a misconfigured or invalid configuration source and not detect an error until an application requests configuration from that configuration source.

#### Authentication

To use HTTP basic authentication on the remote repository add the "username" and "password" properties separately \(not in the URL\), e.g.

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
              username: trolley
              password: strongpassword
    

If you don’t use HTTPS and user credentials, SSH should also work out of the box when you store keys in the default directories \(`~/.ssh`\) and the uri points to an SSH location, e.g. "<git@github.com>:configuration/cloud-configuration". It is important that an entry for the Git server be present in the`~/.ssh/known_hosts`file and that it is in`ssh-rsa`format. Other formats \(like`ecdsa-sha2-nistp256`\) are not supported. To avoid surprises, you should ensure that only one entry is present in the`known_hosts`file for the Git server and that it is matching with the URL you provided to the config server. If you used a hostname in the URL, you want to have exactly that in the`known_hosts`file, not the IP. The repository is accessed using JGit, so any documentation you find on that should be applicable. HTTPS proxy settings can be set in`~/.git/config`or in the same way as for any other JVM process via system properties \(`-Dhttps.proxyHost`and`-Dhttps.proxyPort`\).

> If you don’t know where your`~/.git`directory is use`git config --global`to manipulate the settings \(e.g.`git config --global http.sslVerify false`\).

#### Authentication with AWS CodeCommit

[AWS CodeCommit](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codecommit/latest/userguide/welcome.html)authentication can also be done. AWS CodeCommit uses an authentication helper when using Git from the command line. This helper is not used with the JGit library, so a JGit CredentialProvider for AWS CodeCommit will be created if the Git URI matches the AWS CodeCommit pattern. AWS CodeCommit URIs always look like[https://git-codecommit.${AWS\_REGION}.amazonaws.com/${repopath}](https://git-codecommit.%24{aws_region}.amazonaws.com/${repopath}).

If you provide a username and password with an AWS CodeCommit URI, then these must be the[AWS accessKeyId and secretAccessKey](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSGettingStartedGuide/AWSCredentials.html)to be used to access the repository. If you do not specify a username and password, then the accessKeyId and secretAccessKey will be retrieved using the[AWS Default Credential Provider Chain](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/v1/developer-guide/credentials.html).

If your Git URI matches the CodeCommit URI pattern \(above\) then you must provide valid AWS credentials in the username and password, or in one of the locations supported by the default credential provider chain. AWS EC2 instances may use[IAM Roles for EC2 Instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html).

Note: The aws-java-sdk-core jar is an optional dependency. If the aws-java-sdk-core jar is not on your classpath, then the AWS Code Commit credential provider will not be created regardless of the git server URI.

#### Git SSH configuration using properties

By default, the JGit library used by Spring Cloud Config Server uses SSH configuration files such as`~/.ssh/known_hosts`and`/etc/ssh/ssh_config`when connecting to Git repositories using an SSH URI. In cloud environments such as Cloud Foundry, the local filesystem may be ephemeral or not easily accessible. For cases such as these, SSH configuration can be set using Java properties. In order to activate property based SSH configuration, the property`spring.cloud.config.server.git.ignoreLocalSshSettings`must be set to`true`. Example:

    spring:
        cloud:
          config:
            server:
              git:
                uri: git@gitserver.com:team/repo1.git
                ignoreLocalSshSettings: true
                hostKey: someHostKey
                hostKeyAlgorithm: ssh-rsa
                privateKey: |
                             -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
                             MIIEpgIBAAKCAQEAx4UbaDzY5xjW6hc9jwN0mX33XpTDVW9WqHp5AKaRbtAC3DqX
                             IXFMPgw3K45jxRb93f8tv9vL3rD9CUG1Gv4FM+o7ds7FRES5RTjv2RT/JVNJCoqF
                             ol8+ngLqRZCyBtQN7zYByWMRirPGoDUqdPYrj2yq+ObBBNhg5N+hOwKjjpzdj2Ud
                             1l7R+wxIqmJo1IYyy16xS8WsjyQuyC0lL456qkd5BDZ0Ag8j2X9H9D5220Ln7s9i
                             oezTipXipS7p7Jekf3Ywx6abJwOmB0rX79dV4qiNcGgzATnG1PkXxqt76VhcGa0W
                             DDVHEEYGbSQ6hIGSh0I7BQun0aLRZojfE3gqHQIDAQABAoIBAQCZmGrk8BK6tXCd
                             fY6yTiKxFzwb38IQP0ojIUWNrq0+9Xt+NsypviLHkXfXXCKKU4zUHeIGVRq5MN9b
                             BO56/RrcQHHOoJdUWuOV2qMqJvPUtC0CpGkD+valhfD75MxoXU7s3FK7yjxy3rsG
                             EmfA6tHV8/4a5umo5TqSd2YTm5B19AhRqiuUVI1wTB41DjULUGiMYrnYrhzQlVvj
                             5MjnKTlYu3V8PoYDfv1GmxPPh6vlpafXEeEYN8VB97e5x3DGHjZ5UrurAmTLTdO8
                             +AahyoKsIY612TkkQthJlt7FJAwnCGMgY6podzzvzICLFmmTXYiZ/28I4BX/mOSe
                             pZVnfRixAoGBAO6Uiwt40/PKs53mCEWngslSCsh9oGAaLTf/XdvMns5VmuyyAyKG
                             ti8Ol5wqBMi4GIUzjbgUvSUt+IowIrG3f5tN85wpjQ1UGVcpTnl5Qo9xaS1PFScQ
                             xrtWZ9eNj2TsIAMp/svJsyGG3OibxfnuAIpSXNQiJPwRlW3irzpGgVx/AoGBANYW
                             dnhshUcEHMJi3aXwR12OTDnaLoanVGLwLnkqLSYUZA7ZegpKq90UAuBdcEfgdpyi
                             PhKpeaeIiAaNnFo8m9aoTKr+7I6/uMTlwrVnfrsVTZv3orxjwQV20YIBCVRKD1uX
                             VhE0ozPZxwwKSPAFocpyWpGHGreGF1AIYBE9UBtjAoGBAI8bfPgJpyFyMiGBjO6z
                             FwlJc/xlFqDusrcHL7abW5qq0L4v3R+FrJw3ZYufzLTVcKfdj6GelwJJO+8wBm+R
                             gTKYJItEhT48duLIfTDyIpHGVm9+I1MGhh5zKuCqIhxIYr9jHloBB7kRm0rPvYY4
                             VAykcNgyDvtAVODP+4m6JvhjAoGBALbtTqErKN47V0+JJpapLnF0KxGrqeGIjIRV
                             cYA6V4WYGr7NeIfesecfOC356PyhgPfpcVyEztwlvwTKb3RzIT1TZN8fH4YBr6Ee
                             KTbTjefRFhVUjQqnucAvfGi29f+9oE3Ei9f7wA+H35ocF6JvTYUsHNMIO/3gZ38N
                             CPjyCMa9AoGBAMhsITNe3QcbsXAbdUR00dDsIFVROzyFJ2m40i4KCRM35bC/BIBs
                             q0TY3we+ERB40U8Z2BvU61QuwaunJ2+uGadHo58VSVdggqAo0BSkH58innKKt96J
                             69pcVH/4rmLbXdcmNYGm6iu+MlPQk4BUZknHSmVHIFdJ0EPupVaQ8RHT
                             -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
    

**Table 5.1. SSH Configuration properties**

|  |  |
|: |: |
|  |  |

#### Placeholders in Git Search Paths

Spring Cloud Config Server also supports a search path with placeholders for the`{application}`and`{profile}`\(and`{label}`if you need it\). Example:

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
              searchPaths: '{application}'
    

searches the repository for files in the same name as the directory \(as well as the top level\). Wildcards are also valid in a search path with placeholders \(any matching directory is included in the search\).

#### Force pull in Git Repositories

As mentioned before Spring Cloud Config Server makes a clone of the remote git repository and if somehow the local copy gets dirty \(e.g. folder content changes by OS process\) so Spring Cloud Config Server cannot update the local copy from remote repository.

To solve this there is a`force-pull`property that will make Spring Cloud Config Server force pull from remote repository if the local copy is dirty. Example:

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
              force-pull: true
    

If you have a multiple repositories configuration you can configure the`force-pull`property per repository. Example:

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            git:
              uri: https://git/common/config-repo.git
              force-pull: true
              repos:
                team-a:
                    pattern: team-a-*
                    uri: http://git/team-a/config-repo.git
                    force-pull: true
                team-b:
                    pattern: team-b-*
                    uri: http://git/team-b/config-repo.git
                    force-pull: true
                team-c:
                    pattern: team-c-*
                    uri: http://git/team-a/config-repo.git
    

The default value for`force-pull`property is`false`

#### 5.1.2 Version Control Backend Filesystem Use

> With VCS based backends \(git, svn\) files are checked out or cloned to the local filesystem. By default they are put in the system temporary directory with a prefix of`config-repo-`. On linux, for example it could be`/tmp/config-repo-<randomid>`. Some operating systems [routinely clean out](https://serverfault.com/questions/377348/when-does-tmp-get-cleared/377349#377349) temporary directories. This can lead to unexpected behaviour such as missing properties. To avoid this problem, change the directory Config Server uses, by setting`spring.cloud.config.server.git.basedir`or`spring.cloud.config.server.svn.basedir`to a directory that does not reside in the system temp structure.

### 5.1.3 File System Backend

There is also a "native" profile in the Config Server that doesn’t use Git, but just loads the config files from the local classpath or file system \(any static URL you want to point to with "spring.cloud.config.server.native.searchLocations"\). To use the native profile just launch the Config Server with "spring.profiles.active=native".

> Remember to use the`file:`prefix for file resources \(the default without a prefix is usually the classpath\). Just as with any Spring Boot configuration you can embed`${}`-style environment placeholders, but remember that absolute paths in Windows require an extra "/", e.g.[`file:///${user.home}/config-repo`](file:///${user.home}/config-repo)
> 
> The default value of the`searchLocations`is identical to a local Spring Boot application \(so`[classpath:/, classpath:/config, file:./, file:./config]`\). This does not expose the`application.properties`from the server to all clients because any property sources present in the server are removed before being sent to the client.
> 
> A filesystem backend is great for getting started quickly and for testing. To use it in production you need to be sure that the file system is reliable, and shared across all instances of the Config Server.

The search locations can contain placeholders for`{application}`,`{profile}`and`{label}`. In this way you can segregate the directories in the path, and choose a strategy that makes sense for you \(e.g. sub-directory per application, or sub-directory per profile\).

If you don’t use placeholders in the search locations, this repository also appends the`{label}`parameter of the HTTP resource to a suffix on the search path, so properties files are loaded from each search location**and**a subdirectory with the same name as the label \(the labelled properties take precedence in the Spring Environment\). Thus the default behaviour with no placeholders is the same as adding a search location ending with`/{label}/`. For example`file:/tmp/config`is the same as`file:/tmp/config,file:/tmp/config/{label}`. This behavior can be disabled by setting`spring.cloud.config.server.native.addLabelLocations=false`.

### 5.1.4 Vault Backend

Spring Cloud Config Server also supports[Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/)as a backend.

    Vault is a tool for securely accessing secrets. A secret is anything that you want to tightly control access to, such as API keys, passwords, certificates, and more.
     Vault provides a unified interface to any secret, while providing tight access control and recording a detailed audit log.
    

For more information on Vault see the[Vault quickstart guide](https://www.vaultproject.io/intro/index.html).

To enable the config server to use a Vault backend you must run your config server with the`vault`profile. For example in your config server’s`application.properties`you can add`spring.profiles.active=vault`.

By default the config server will assume your Vault server is running at[`http://127.0.0.1:8200`](http://127.0.0.1:8200/). It also will assume that the name of backend is`secret`and the key is`application`. All of these defaults can be configured in your config server’s`application.properties`. Below is a table of configurable Vault properties. All properties are prefixed with`spring.cloud.config.server.vault`.

|  |
|: |
|  |

| Name             | Default Value |
|:---------------- |:------------- |
| host             | 127.0.0.1     |
| port             | 8200          |
| scheme           | http          |
| backend          | secret        |
| defaultKey       | application   |
| profileSeparator | ,             |

All configurable properties can be found in`org.springframework.cloud.config.server.environment.VaultEnvironmentRepository`.

With your config server running you can make HTTP requests to the server to retrieve values from the Vault backend. To do this you will need a token for your Vault server.

First place some data in you Vault. For example

    $ vault write secret/application foo=bar baz=bam
    $ vault write secret/myapp foo=myappsbar
    

Now make the HTTP request to your config server to retrieve the values.

`$ curl -X "GET" "http://localhost:8888/myapp/default" -H "X-Config-Token: yourtoken"`

You should see a response similar to this after making the above request.

    {
       "name":"myapp",
       "profiles":[
          "default"
       ],
       "label":null,
       "version":null,
       "state":null,
       "propertySources":[
          {
             "name":"vault:myapp",
             "source":{
                "foo":"myappsbar"
             }
          },
          {
             "name":"vault:application",
             "source":{
                "baz":"bam",
                "foo":"bar"
             }
          }
       ]
    }
    

#### Multiple Properties Sources

When using Vault you can provide your applications with multiple properties sources. For example, assume you have written data to the following paths in Vault.

    secret/myApp,dev
    secret/myApp
    secret/application,dev
    secret/application
    

Properties written to`secret/application`are available to[all applications using the Config Server](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Dalston.SR4/multi/multi__spring_cloud_config_server.html#_vault_server). An application with the name`myApp`would have any properties written to`secret/myApp`and`secret/application`available to it. When`myApp`has the`dev`profile enabled then properties written to all of the above paths would be available to it, with properties in the first path in the list taking priority over the others.

### 5.1.5 Sharing Configuration With All Applications

#### File Based Repositories

With file-based \(i.e. git, svn and native\) repositories, resources with file names in`application*`are shared between all client applications \(so`application.properties`,`application.yml`,`application-*.properties`etc.\). You can use resources with these file names to configure global defaults and have them overridden by application-specific files as necessary.

The \#\_property\_overrides\[property overrides\] feature can also be used for setting global defaults, and with placeholders applications are allowed to override them locally.

> With the "native" profile \(local file system backend\) it is recommended that you use an explicit search location that isn’t part of the server’s own configuration. Otherwise the`application*`resources in the default search locations are removed because they are part of the server.

#### Vault Server

When using Vault as a backend you can share configuration with all applications by placing configuration in`secret/application`. For example, if you run this Vault command

    $ vault write secret/application foo=bar baz=bam
    

All applications using the config server will have the properties`foo`and`baz`available to them.

### 5.1.6 Composite Environment Repositories

In some scenarios you may wish to pull configuration data from multiple environment repositories. To do this just enable multiple profiles in your config server’s application properties or YAML file. If, for example, you want to pull configuration data from a Git repository as well as a SVN repository you would set the following properties for your configuration server.

    spring:
      profiles:
        active: git, svn
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            svn:
              uri: file:///path/to/svn/repo
              order: 2
            git:
              uri: file:///path/to/git/repo
              order: 1
    

In addition to each repo specifying a URI, you can also specify an`order`property. The`order`property allows you to specify the priority order for all your repositories. The lower the numerical value of the`order`property the higher priority it will have. The priority order of a repository will help resolve any potential conflicts between repositories that contain values for the same propert

> Any type of failure when retrieving values from an environment repositoy will result in a failure for the entire composite environment.
> 
> When using a composite environment it is important that all repos contain the same label\(s\). If you have an environment similar to the one above and you request configuration data with the label`master`but the SVN repo does not contain a branch called`master`the entire request will fail.

#### Custom Composite Environment Repositories

It is also possible to provide your own`EnvironmentRepository`bean to be included as part of a composite environment in addition to using one of the environment repositories from Spring Cloud. To do this your bean must implement the`EnvironmentRepository`interface. If you would like to control the priority of you custom`EnvironmentRepository`within the composite environment you should also implement the`Ordered`interface and override the`getOrdered`method. If you do not implement the`Ordered`interface then your`EnvironmentRepository`will be given the lowest priority.

### 5.1.7 Property Overrides

The Config Server has an "overrides" feature that allows the operator to provide configuration properties to all applications that cannot be accidentally changed by the application using the normal Spring Boot hooks. To declare overrides just add a map of name-value pairs to`spring.cloud.config.server.overrides`. For example

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            overrides:
              foo: bar
    

will cause all applications that are config clients to read`foo=bar`independent of their own configuration. \(Of course an application can use the data in the Config Server in any way it likes, so overrides are not enforceable, but they do provide useful default behaviour if they are Spring Cloud Config clients.\)

> Normal, Spring environment placeholders with "${}" can be escaped \(and resolved on the client\) by using backslash \("\"\) to escape the "$" or the "{", e.g.`\${app.foo:bar}`resolves to "bar" unless the app provides its own "app.foo". Note that in YAML you don’t need to escape the backslash itself, but in properties files you do, when you configure the overrides on the server.

You can change the priority of all overrides in the client to be more like default values, allowing applications to supply their own values in environment variables or System properties, by setting the flag`spring.cloud.config.overrideNone=true`\(default is false\) in the remote repository.

## 5.2 Health Indicator

Config Server comes with a Health Indicator that checks if the configured`EnvironmentRepository`is working. By default it asks the`EnvironmentRepository`for an application named`app`, the`default`profile and the default label provided by the`EnvironmentRepository`implementation.

You can configure the Health Indicator to check more applications along with custom profiles and custom labels, e.g.

    spring:
      cloud:
        config:
          server:
            health:
              repositories:
                myservice:
                  label: mylabel
                myservice-dev:
                  name: myservice
                  profiles: development
    

You can disable the Health Indicator by setting`spring.cloud.config.server.health.enabled=false`.

## 5.3 Security

You are free to secure your Config Server in any way that makes sense to you \(from physical network security to OAuth2 bearer tokens\), and Spring Security and Spring Boot make it easy to do pretty much anything.

To use the default Spring Boot configured HTTP Basic security, just include Spring Security on the classpath \(e.g. through`spring-boot-starter-security`\). The default is a username of "user" and a randomly generated password, which isn’t going to be very useful in practice, so we recommend you configure the password \(via`security.user.password`\) and encrypt it \(see below for instructions on how to do that\).

## 5.4 Encryption and Decryption

**Important**

**Prerequisites:**to use the encryption and decryption features you need the full-strength JCE installed in your JVM \(it’s not there by default\). You can download the "Java Cryptography Extension \(JCE\) Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Files" from Oracle, and follow instructions for installation \(essentially replace the 2 policy files in the JRE lib/security directory with the ones that you downloaded\).

If the remote property sources contain encrypted content \(values starting with`{cipher}`\) they will be decrypted before sending to clients over HTTP. The main advantage of this set up is that the property values don’t have to be in plain text when they are "at rest" \(e.g. in a git repository\). If a value cannot be decrypted it is removed from the property source and an additional property is added with the same key, but prefixed with "invalid." and a value that means "not applicable" \(usually "&lt;n/a&gt;"\). This is largely to prevent cipher text being used as a password and accidentally leaking.

If you are setting up a remote config repository for config client applications it might contain an`application.yml`like this, for instance:

**application.yml. **

    spring:
      datasource:
        username: dbuser
        password: '{cipher}FKSAJDFGYOS8F7GLHAKERGFHLSAJ'
    

Encrypted values in a .properties file must not be wrapped in quotes, otherwise the value will not be decrypted:

**application.properties. **

    spring.datasource.username: dbuser
    spring.datasource.password: {cipher}FKSAJDFGYOS8F7GLHAKERGFHLSAJ
    

You can safely push this plain text to a shared git repository and the secret password is protected.

The server also exposes`/encrypt`and`/decrypt`endpoints \(on the assumption that these will be secured and only accessed by authorized agents\). If you are editing a remote config file you can use the Config Server to encrypt values by POSTing to the`/encrypt`endpoint, e.g.

    $ curl localhost:8888/encrypt -d mysecret
    682bc583f4641835fa2db009355293665d2647dade3375c0ee201de2a49f7bda
    

If the value you are encrypting has characters in it that need to be URL encoded you should use the`--data-urlencode`option to`curl`to make sure they are encoded properly.

Be sure not to include any of the curl command statistics in the encrypted value. Outputting the value to a file can help avoid this problem.The inverse operation is also available via`/decrypt`\(provided the server is configured with a symmetric key or a full key pair\):

    $ curl localhost:8888/decrypt -d 682bc583f4641835fa2db009355293665d2647dade3375c0ee201de2a49f7bda
    mysecret
    

> If you are testing like this with curl, then use`--data-urlencode`\(instead of`-d`\) or set an explicit`Content-Type: text/plain`to make sure curl encodes the data correctly when there are special characters \('+' is particularly tricky\).

Take the encrypted value and add the`{cipher}`prefix before you put it in the YAML or properties file, and before you commit and push it to a remote, potentially insecure store.

The`/encrypt`and`/decrypt`endpoints also both accept paths of the form`/*/{name}/{profiles}`which can be used to control cryptography per application \(name\) and profile when clients call into the main Environment resource.

> to control the cryptography in this granular way you must also provide a`@Bean`of type`TextEncryptorLocator`that creates a different encryptor per name and profiles. The one that is provided by default does not do this \(so all encryptions use the same key\).

The`spring`command line client \(with Spring Cloud CLI extensions installed\) can also be used to encrypt and decrypt, e.g.

    $ spring encrypt mysecret --key foo
    682bc583f4641835fa2db009355293665d2647dade3375c0ee201de2a49f7bda
    $ spring decrypt --key foo 682bc583f4641835fa2db009355293665d2647dade3375c0ee201de2a49f7bda
    mysecret
    

To use a key in a file \(e.g. an RSA public key for encryption\) prepend the key value with "@" and provide the file path, e.g.

    $ spring encrypt mysecret --key @${HOME}/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
    AQAjPgt3eFZQXwt8tsHAVv/QHiY5sI2dRcR+...
    

The key argument is mandatory \(despite having a`--`prefix\).

## 5.5 Key Management

The Config Server can use a symmetric \(shared\) key or an asymmetric one \(RSA key pair\). The asymmetric choice is superior in terms of security, but it is often more convenient to use a symmetric key since it is just a single property value to configure.

To configure a symmetric key you just need to set`encrypt.key`to a secret String \(or use an enviroment variable`ENCRYPT_KEY`to keep it out of plain text configuration files\).

To configure an asymmetric key you can either set the key as a PEM-encoded text value \(in`encrypt.key`\), or via a keystore \(e.g. as created by the`keytool`utility that comes with the JDK\). The keystore properties are`encrypt.keyStore.*`with`*`equal to

* `location`\(a`Resource`location\),
* `password`\(to unlock the keystore\) and
* `alias`\(to identify which key in the store is to be used\).

The encryption is done with the public key, and a private key is needed for decryption. Thus in principle you can configure only the public key in the server if you only want to do encryption \(and are prepared to decrypt the values yourself locally with the private key\). In practice you might not want to do that because it spreads the key management process around all the clients, instead of concentrating it in the server. On the other hand it’s a useful option if your config server really is relatively insecure and only a handful of clients need the encrypted properties.

## 5.6 Creating a Key Store for Testing

To create a keystore for testing you can do something like this:

    $ keytool -genkeypair -alias mytestkey -keyalg RSA \
      -dname "CN=Web Server,OU=Unit,O=Organization,L=City,S=State,C=US" \
      -keypass changeme -keystore server.jks -storepass letmein
    

Put the`server.jks`file in the classpath \(for instance\) and then in your`application.yml`for the Config Server:

    encrypt:
      keyStore:
        location: classpath:/server.jks
        password: letmein
        alias: mytestkey
        secret: changeme
    

## 5.7 Using Multiple Keys and Key Rotation

In addition to the`{cipher}`prefix in encrypted property values, the Config Server looks for`{name:value}`prefixes \(zero or many\) before the start of the \(Base64 encoded\) cipher text. The keys are passed to a`TextEncryptorLocator`which can do whatever logic it needs to locate a`TextEncryptor`for the cipher. If you have configured a keystore \(`encrypt.keystore.location`\) the default locator will look for keys in the store with aliases as supplied by the "key" prefix, i.e. with a cipher text like this:

    foo:
      bar: `{cipher}{key:testkey}...`
    

the locator will look for a key named "testkey". A secret can also be supplied via a`{secret:…​}`value in the prefix, but if it is not the default is to use the keystore password \(which is what you get when you build a keytore and don’t specify a secret\). If you**do**supply a secret it is recommended that you also encrypt the secrets using a custom`SecretLocator`.

Key rotation is hardly ever necessary on cryptographic grounds if the keys are only being used to encrypt a few bytes of configuration data \(i.e. they are not being used elsewhere\), but occasionally you might need to change the keys if there is a security breach for instance. In that case all the clients would need to change their source config files \(e.g. in git\) and use a new`{key:…​}`prefix in all the ciphers, checking beforehand of course that the key alias is available in the Config Server keystore.

> the`{name:value}`prefixes can also be added to plaintext posted to the`/encrypt`endpoint, if you want to let the Config Server handle all encryption as well as decryption.

## 5.8 Serving Encrypted Properties

Sometimes you want the clients to decrypt the configuration locally, instead of doing it in the server. In that case you can still have /encrypt and /decrypt endpoints \(if you provide the`encrypt.*`configuration to locate a key\), but you need to explicitly switch off the decryption of outgoing properties using`spring.cloud.config.server.encrypt.enabled=false`. If you don’t care about the endpoints, then it should work if you configure neither the key nor the enabled flag.