## 5. Spring Cloud Config Server

The Server provides an HTTP, resource-based API for external configuration \(name-value pairs, or equivalent YAML content\). The server is easily embeddable in a Spring Boot application using the`@EnableConfigServer`annotation. So this app is a config server:

**ConfigServer.java. **

```
@SpringBootApplication
@EnableConfigServer
public
class
 ConfigServer {
  
public
static
void
 main(String[] args) {
    SpringApplication.run(ConfigServer.
class
, args);
  }
}
```



Like all Spring Boot apps it runs on port 8080 by default, but you can switch it to the conventional port 8888 in various ways. The easiest, which also sets a default configuration repository, is by launching it with`spring.config.name=configserver`\(there is a`configserver.yml`in the Config Server jar\). Another is to use your own`application.properties`, e.g.

**application.properties. **

```
server.port
: 8888

spring.cloud.config.server.git.uri
: file://${user.home}/config-repo
```



where`${user.home}/config-repo`is a git repository containing YAML and properties files.

> in Windows you need an extra "/" in the file URL if it is absolute with a drive prefix, e.g.[`file:///${user.home}/config-repo`](file:///$%7Buser.home%7D/config-repo).

> Here’s a recipe for creating the git repository in the example above:
>
> ```
> $ cd $HOME
> $ mkdir config-repo
> $ cd config-repo
> $ git init .
> $ echo info.foo: bar 
> >
>  application.properties
> $ git add -A .
> $ git commit -m "Add application.properties"
> ```

> using the local filesystem for your git repository is intended for testing only. Use a server to host your configuration repositories in production.

> the initial clone of your configuration repository will be quick and efficient if you only keep text files in it. If you start to store binary files, especially large ones, you may experience delays on the first request for configuration and/or out of memory errors in the server.

## 5.1 Environment Repository

Where do you want to store the configuration data for the Config Server? The strategy that governs this behaviour is the`EnvironmentRepository`, serving`Environment`objects. This`Environment`is a shallow copy of the domain from the Spring`Environment`\(including`propertySources`as the main feature\). The`Environment`resources are parametrized by three variables:

* `{application}`maps to "spring.application.name" on the client side;
* `{profile}`maps to "spring.profiles.active" on the client \(comma separated list\); and
* `{label}`which is a server side feature labelling a "versioned" set of config files.

Repository implementations generally behave just like a Spring Boot application loading configuration files from a "spring.config.name" equal to the`{application}`parameter, and "spring.profiles.active" equal to the`{profiles}`parameter. Precedence rules for profiles are also the same as in a regular Boot application: active profiles take precedence over defaults, and if there are multiple profiles the last one wins \(like adding entries to a`Map`\).

Example: a client application has this bootstrap configuration:

**bootstrap.yml. **

```
spring:
  application:
    name: foo
  profiles:
    active: dev,mysql
```



\(as usual with a Spring Boot application, these properties could also be set as environment variables or command line arguments\).

If the repository is file-based, the server will create an`Environment`from`application.yml`\(shared between all clients\), and`foo.yml`\(with`foo.yml`taking precedence\). If the YAML files have documents inside them that point to Spring profiles, those are applied with higher precedence \(in order of the profiles listed\), and if there are profile-specific YAML \(or properties\) files these are also applied with higher precedence than the defaults. Higher precedence translates to a`PropertySource`listed earlier in the`Environment`. \(These are the same rules as apply in a standalone Spring Boot application.\)

### 5.1.1 Git Backend

The default implementation of`EnvironmentRepository`uses a Git backend, which is very convenient for managing upgrades and physical environments, and also for auditing changes. To change the location of the repository you can set the "spring.cloud.config.server.git.uri" configuration property in the Config Server \(e.g. in`application.yml`\). If you set it with a`file:`prefix it should work from a local repository so you can get started quickly and easily without a server, but in that case the server operates directly on the local repository without cloning it \(it doesn’t matter if it’s not bare because the Config Server never makes changes to the "remote" repository\). To scale the Config Server up and make it highly available, you would need to have all instances of the server pointing to the same repository, so only a shared file system would work. Even in that case it is better to use the`ssh:`protocol for a shared filesystem repository, so that the server can clone it and use a local working copy as a cache.

This repository implementation maps the`{label}`parameter of the HTTP resource to a git label \(commit id, branch name or tag\). If the git branch or tag name contains a slash \("/"\) then the label in the HTTP URL should be specified with the special string "\(\_\)" instead \(to avoid ambiguity with other URL paths\). For example, if the label is`foo/bar`, replacing the slash would result in a label that looks like`foo(_)bar`. Be careful with the brackets in the URL if you are using a command line client like curl \(e.g. escape them from the shell with quotes ''\).

#### Placeholders in Git URI

Spring Cloud Config Server supports a git repository URL with placeholders for the`{application}`and`{profile}`\(and`{label}`if you need it, but remember that the label is applied as a git label anyway\). So you can easily support a "one repo per application" policy using \(for example\):

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://github.com/myorg/{application}
```

or a "one repo per profile" policy using a similar pattern but with`{profile}`.

#### Pattern Matching and Multiple Repositories

There is also support for more complex requirements with pattern matching on the application and profile name. The pattern format is a comma-separated list of`{application}/{profile}`names with wildcards \(where a pattern beginning with a wildcard may need to be quoted\). Example:

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
          repos:
            simple: https://github.com/simple/config-repo
            special:
              pattern: special*/dev*,*special*/dev*
              uri: https://github.com/special/config-repo
            local:
              pattern: local*
              uri: file:/home/configsvc/config-repo
```

If`{application}/{profile}`does not match any of the patterns, it will use the default uri defined under "spring.cloud.config.server.git.uri". In the above example, for the "simple" repository, the pattern is`simple/*`

\(i.e. it only matches one application named "simple" in all profiles\). The "local" repository matches all application names beginning with "local" in all profiles \(the`/*`suffix is added automatically to any pattern that doesn’t have a profile matcher\).

> the "one-liner" short cut used in the "simple" example above can only be used if the only property to be set is the URI. If you need to set anything else \(credentials, pattern, etc.\) you need to use the full form.

The`pattern`property in the repo is actually an array, so you can use a YAML array \(or`[0]`,`[1]`, etc. suffixes in properties files\) to bind to multiple patterns. You may need to do this if you are going to run apps with multiple profiles. Example:

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
          repos:
            development:
              pattern:
                - '*/development'
                - '*/staging'
              uri: https://github.com/development/config-repo
            staging:
              pattern:
                - '*/qa'
                - '*/production'
              uri: https://github.com/staging/config-repo
```

> Spring Cloud will guess that a pattern containing a profile that doesn’t end in`*`implies that you actually want to match a list of profiles starting with this pattern \(so`*/staging`is a shortcut for`["*/staging", "*/staging,*"]`\). This is common where you need to run apps in the "development" profile locally but also the "cloud" profile remotely, for instance.

Every repository can also optionally store config files in sub-directories, and patterns to search for those directories can be specified as`searchPaths`. For example at the top level:

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
          searchPaths: foo,bar*
```

In this example the server searches for config files in the top level and in the "foo/" sub-directory and also any sub-directory whose name begins with "bar".

By default the server clones remote repositories when configuration is first requested. The server can be configured to clone the repositories at startup. For example at the top level:

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://git/common/config-repo.git
          repos:
            team-a:
                pattern: team-a-*
                cloneOnStart: true
                uri: http://git/team-a/config-repo.git
            team-b:
                pattern: team-b-*
                cloneOnStart: false
                uri: http://git/team-b/config-repo.git
            team-c:
                pattern: team-c-*
                uri: http://git/team-a/config-repo.git
```

In this example the server clones team-a’s config-repo on startup before it accepts any requests. All other repositories will not be cloned until configuration from the repository is requested.

> Setting a repository to be cloned when the Config Server starts up can help to identify a misconfigured configuration source \(e.g., an invalid repository URI\) quickly, while the Config Server is starting up. With`cloneOnStart`
>
> not enabled for a configuration source, the Config Server may start successfully with a misconfigured or invalid configuration source and not detect an error until an application requests configuration from that configuration source.

#### Authentication

To use HTTP basic authentication on the remote repository add the "username" and "password" properties separately \(not in the URL\), e.g.

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
          username: trolley
          password: strongpassword
```

If you don’t use HTTPS and user credentials, SSH should also work out of the box when you store keys in the default directories \(`~/.ssh`\) and the uri points to an SSH location, e.g. "[git@github.com](mailto:git@github.com):configuration/cloud-configuration". It is important that an entry for the Git server be present in the`~/.ssh/known_hosts`file and that it is in`ssh-rsa`format. Other formats \(like`ecdsa-sha2-nistp256`\) are not supported. To avoid surprises, you should ensure that only one entry is present in the`known_hosts`file for the Git server and that it is matching with the URL you provided to the config server. If you used a hostname in the URL, you want to have exactly that in the`known_hosts`file, not the IP. The repository is accessed using JGit, so any documentation you find on that should be applicable. HTTPS proxy settings can be set in`~/.git/config`or in the same way as for any other JVM process via system properties \(`-Dhttps.proxyHost`and`-Dhttps.proxyPort`\).

> If you don’t know where your`~/.git`directory is use`git config --global`to manipulate the settings \(e.g.`git config --global http.sslVerify false`\).

#### Authentication with AWS CodeCommit

[AWS CodeCommit](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codecommit/latest/userguide/welcome.html)authentication can also be done. AWS CodeCommit uses an authentication helper when using Git from the command line. This helper is not used with the JGit library, so a JGit CredentialProvider for AWS CodeCommit will be created if the Git URI matches the AWS CodeCommit pattern. AWS CodeCommit URIs always look like[https://git-codecommit.${AWS\_REGION}.amazonaws.com/${repopath}](https://git-codecommit.%24%7Baws_region%7D.amazonaws.com/$%7Brepopath%7D).

If you provide a username and password with an AWS CodeCommit URI, then these must be the[AWS accessKeyId and secretAccessKey](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSGettingStartedGuide/AWSCredentials.html)to be used to access the repository. If you do not specify a username and password, then the accessKeyId and secretAccessKey will be retrieved using the[AWS Default Credential Provider Chain](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/v1/developer-guide/credentials.html).

If your Git URI matches the CodeCommit URI pattern \(above\) then you must provide valid AWS credentials in the username and password, or in one of the locations supported by the default credential provider chain. AWS EC2 instances may use[IAM Roles for EC2 Instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html).

Note: The aws-java-sdk-core jar is an optional dependency. If the aws-java-sdk-core jar is not on your classpath, then the AWS Code Commit credential provider will not be created regardless of the git server URI.

#### Git SSH configuration using properties

By default, the JGit library used by Spring Cloud Config Server uses SSH configuration files such as`~/.ssh/known_hosts`and`/etc/ssh/ssh_config`when connecting to Git repositories using an SSH URI. In cloud environments such as Cloud Foundry, the local filesystem may be ephemeral or not easily accessible. For cases such as these, SSH configuration can be set using Java properties. In order to activate property based SSH configuration, the property`spring.cloud.config.server.git.ignoreLocalSshSettings`must be set to`true`. Example:

```
spring:
    cloud:
      config:
        server:
          git:
            uri: git@gitserver.com:team/repo1.git
            ignoreLocalSshSettings: true
            hostKey: someHostKey
            hostKeyAlgorithm: ssh-rsa
            privateKey: |
                         -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
                         MIIEpgIBAAKCAQEAx4UbaDzY5xjW6hc9jwN0mX33XpTDVW9WqHp5AKaRbtAC3DqX
                         IXFMPgw3K45jxRb93f8tv9vL3rD9CUG1Gv4FM+o7ds7FRES5RTjv2RT/JVNJCoqF
                         ol8+ngLqRZCyBtQN7zYByWMRirPGoDUqdPYrj2yq+ObBBNhg5N+hOwKjjpzdj2Ud
                         1l7R+wxIqmJo1IYyy16xS8WsjyQuyC0lL456qkd5BDZ0Ag8j2X9H9D5220Ln7s9i
                         oezTipXipS7p7Jekf3Ywx6abJwOmB0rX79dV4qiNcGgzATnG1PkXxqt76VhcGa0W
                         DDVHEEYGbSQ6hIGSh0I7BQun0aLRZojfE3gqHQIDAQABAoIBAQCZmGrk8BK6tXCd
                         fY6yTiKxFzwb38IQP0ojIUWNrq0+9Xt+NsypviLHkXfXXCKKU4zUHeIGVRq5MN9b
                         BO56/RrcQHHOoJdUWuOV2qMqJvPUtC0CpGkD+valhfD75MxoXU7s3FK7yjxy3rsG
                         EmfA6tHV8/4a5umo5TqSd2YTm5B19AhRqiuUVI1wTB41DjULUGiMYrnYrhzQlVvj
                         5MjnKTlYu3V8PoYDfv1GmxPPh6vlpafXEeEYN8VB97e5x3DGHjZ5UrurAmTLTdO8
                         +AahyoKsIY612TkkQthJlt7FJAwnCGMgY6podzzvzICLFmmTXYiZ/28I4BX/mOSe
                         pZVnfRixAoGBAO6Uiwt40/PKs53mCEWngslSCsh9oGAaLTf/XdvMns5VmuyyAyKG
                         ti8Ol5wqBMi4GIUzjbgUvSUt+IowIrG3f5tN85wpjQ1UGVcpTnl5Qo9xaS1PFScQ
                         xrtWZ9eNj2TsIAMp/svJsyGG3OibxfnuAIpSXNQiJPwRlW3irzpGgVx/AoGBANYW
                         dnhshUcEHMJi3aXwR12OTDnaLoanVGLwLnkqLSYUZA7ZegpKq90UAuBdcEfgdpyi
                         PhKpeaeIiAaNnFo8m9aoTKr+7I6/uMTlwrVnfrsVTZv3orxjwQV20YIBCVRKD1uX
                         VhE0ozPZxwwKSPAFocpyWpGHGreGF1AIYBE9UBtjAoGBAI8bfPgJpyFyMiGBjO6z
                         FwlJc/xlFqDusrcHL7abW5qq0L4v3R+FrJw3ZYufzLTVcKfdj6GelwJJO+8wBm+R
                         gTKYJItEhT48duLIfTDyIpHGVm9+I1MGhh5zKuCqIhxIYr9jHloBB7kRm0rPvYY4
                         VAykcNgyDvtAVODP+4m6JvhjAoGBALbtTqErKN47V0+JJpapLnF0KxGrqeGIjIRV
                         cYA6V4WYGr7NeIfesecfOC356PyhgPfpcVyEztwlvwTKb3RzIT1TZN8fH4YBr6Ee
                         KTbTjefRFhVUjQqnucAvfGi29f+9oE3Ei9f7wA+H35ocF6JvTYUsHNMIO/3gZ38N
                         CPjyCMa9AoGBAMhsITNe3QcbsXAbdUR00dDsIFVROzyFJ2m40i4KCRM35bC/BIBs
                         q0TY3we+ERB40U8Z2BvU61QuwaunJ2+uGadHo58VSVdggqAo0BSkH58innKKt96J
                         69pcVH/4rmLbXdcmNYGm6iu+MlPQk4BUZknHSmVHIFdJ0EPupVaQ8RHT
                         -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
```

**Table 5.1. SSH Configuration properties**



|  |  |
| :--- | :--- |
|  |  |

#### Placeholders in Git Search Paths

Spring Cloud Config Server also supports a search path with placeholders for the`{application}`and`{profile}`\(and`{label}`if you need it\). Example:

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
          searchPaths: '{application}'
```

searches the repository for files in the same name as the directory \(as well as the top level\). Wildcards are also valid in a search path with placeholders \(any matching directory is included in the search\).

#### Force pull in Git Repositories

As mentioned before Spring Cloud Config Server makes a clone of the remote git repository and if somehow the local copy gets dirty \(e.g. folder content changes by OS process\) so Spring Cloud Config Server cannot update the local copy from remote repository.

To solve this there is a`force-pull`property that will make Spring Cloud Config Server force pull from remote repository if the local copy is dirty. Example:

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://github.com/spring-cloud-samples/config-repo
          force-pull: true
```

If you have a multiple repositories configuration you can configure the`force-pull`property per repository. Example:

```
spring:
  cloud:
    config:
      server:
        git:
          uri: https://git/common/config-repo.git
          force-pull: true
          repos:
            team-a:
                pattern: team-a-*
                uri: http://git/team-a/config-repo.git
                force-pull: true
            team-b:
                pattern: team-b-*
                uri: http://git/team-b/config-repo.git
                force-pull: true
            team-c:
                pattern: team-c-*
                uri: http://git/team-a/config-repo.git
```

The default value for`force-pull`property is`false`

#### 5.1.2 Version Control Backend Filesystem Use

> With VCS based backends \(git, svn\) files are checked out or cloned to the local filesystem. By default they are put in the system temporary directory with a prefix of`config-repo-`. On linux, for example it could be`/tmp/config-repo-<randomid>`. Some operating systems [routinely clean out](https://serverfault.com/questions/377348/when-does-tmp-get-cleared/377349#377349) temporary directories. This can lead to unexpected behaviour such as missing properties. To avoid this problem, change the directory Config Server uses, by setting`spring.cloud.config.server.git.basedir`or`spring.cloud.config.server.svn.basedir`to a directory that does not reside in the system temp structure.

### 5.1.3 File System Backend

There is also a "native" profile in the Config Server that doesn’t use Git, but just loads the config files from the local classpath or file system \(any static URL you want to point to with "spring.cloud.config.server.native.searchLocations"\). To use the native profile just launch the Config Server with "spring.profiles.active=native".

> Remember to use the`file:`prefix for file resources \(the default without a prefix is usually the classpath\). Just as with any Spring Boot configuration you can embed`${}`-style environment placeholders, but remember that absolute paths in Windows require an extra "/", e.g.[`file:///${user.home}/config-repo`](file:///$%7Buser.home%7D/config-repo)

> The default value of the`searchLocations`is identical to a local Spring Boot application \(so`[classpath:/, classpath:/config, file:./, file:./config]`\). This does not expose the`application.properties`from the server to all clients because any property sources present in the server are removed before being sent to the client.

> A filesystem backend is great for getting started quickly and for testing. To use it in production you need to be sure that the file system is reliable, and shared across all instances of the Config Server.

The search locations can contain placeholders for`{application}`,`{profile}`and`{label}`. In this way you can segregate the directories in the path, and choose a strategy that makes sense for you \(e.g. sub-directory per application, or sub-directory per profile\).

If you don’t use placeholders in the search locations, this repository also appends the`{label}`parameter of the HTTP resource to a suffix on the search path, so properties files are loaded from each search location**and**a subdirectory with the same name as the label \(the labelled properties take precedence in the Spring Environment\). Thus the default behaviour with no placeholders is the same as adding a search location ending with`/{label}/`. For example`file:/tmp/config`is the same as`file:/tmp/config,file:/tmp/config/{label}`. This behavior can be disabled by setting`spring.cloud.config.server.native.addLabelLocations=false`.

### 5.1.4 Vault Backend

Spring Cloud Config Server also supports[Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/)as a backend.

```
Vault is a tool for securely accessing secrets. A secret is anything that you want to tightly control access to, such as API keys, passwords, certificates, and more.
 Vault provides a unified interface to any secret, while providing tight access control and recording a detailed audit log.
```

For more information on Vault see the[Vault quickstart guide](https://www.vaultproject.io/intro/index.html).

To enable the config server to use a Vault backend you must run your config server with the`vault`profile. For example in your config server’s`application.properties`you can add`spring.profiles.active=vault`.

By default the config server will assume your Vault server is running at[`http://127.0.0.1:8200`](http://127.0.0.1:8200/). It also will assume that the name of backend is`secret`and the key is`application`. All of these defaults can be configured in your config server’s`application.properties`. Below is a table of configurable Vault properties. All properties are prefixed with`spring.cloud.config.server.vault`.

